Libby

Who is really exhausted?

Ready to go to Grendels? I'm going to get more information for that after
Karen's Talk. I'm so glad that Karen is here to give the closing Keynote for
hte 3rd year.

She is the ED of SFC, previous ED of Gnome Foundation, and previous in that
role, won the FSF award for Social Benefit. She has done some amazing work for
the community. GNOME OPW is now part of SFC as Outreachy.

She o




I odn't hav eto say too much about myslef with that great introduction. These
are all the projects in the SFC. youprbobaly recognize names, can you hera me?

I'm also on the BoD of the GNOME FOudnation. I'm a lawyer, which I usually
hide behind the podium when I mention ,but I only do pro-bono work. I
co-organize the OPW, and this week is our last week to apply for OPW. If you
know women who are interested in FOSS, feel free to share this with them.


I am a cyborg, I have a pacemaker/defribulator, and I know the importance of
FOSS when I asked for the source for that device, and was told "NO" It was at
libreplanet when I first shared my personal medical condition, and how that
brought questions about software freedom and why it is so important.


HOw manypeople are new to LIbrePlanet? You should introduce yourself to the
person next to you who raised their hands!


I'm glad there are so many newcomers here, becuase I wasn't sure if I should
dive right back into the GPL, issues. Since there are many newcomers


Im' going to do a quick synopsis of the GPL: the really basic explanation, and
we often make the mistake of assuming what we are talking about, in many of
the talks today and yesterdya, i heard it referenced without talking about it.
So , the GPL is trhe GNU Public LIcense, it is copyleft, and there are
multiple ones, but this one is the one that the FSF promulgates. THe GPL,
LGPL, AGPL, serve different roles. People describe the GPL as a consitution.

I can tell you the GPL is a great read. Just because you ar enot a lawyer
doesn't mean you can't interpret it for yourself.


THe title of my talk is "STand up for the GPL"

People really care abou tthe GPL. I care, and most of ht epeople in the room
really care about copyleft. A sa lwyer in free software, I've been getting
alot of passionate requests for enforcement over the eyars. Many ideological
develoerps, who do it because software freedom is something they beleive is
the right htings. Many of hthem don't want to be identified, and I wonder who
is going to pull me into a corner at social events.

Lawyers and heads of Open source are sometimes passionately asking me to
enforce. Their job is to implement foss, but their companies have to give them
a budget, and take them seriously. If people are not enforcing the licenses,
then it is hard to show value.... it has REALLY floored me. Those people who
asked me to do it, they will swear up and down that that convo never happened,
but it has over the alst 12 years. 


some of the most vocal members have been kernel developers. As you konw, the
kernel named linux is everywhere and in everything. The stats are fascinating,
and what the kernel stands for in this proposition, is a uniqe thing that
happens in copyleft. The kernel, as a long standing project, has benefitted so
greatly from being published under the GPL. It is not a coincidence they have
so many devs using it for so manyt hings. Linus said that his biggest
contribution wasn't technical, bu tchoosing the GPL.


You think about that, and the amount of moeny that is saved, and how much
faster products can come to market, it is astounding. Thinking of Mako's slide
from this morning, you can see those devices. Just because Free Software is in
everything, it doesn't mean our freedoms are protected. We don't alway shave
the freedom to modified. Many companies are treating the GPL like the LGPL, or
not complying.

The conservancy launced the GPL copmliance for devs. WE formed this coaltion
because we didn't require folks to be public about theirm membership. By going
anonymous, we had an impressive triumph.

Once upon a time (oct 2011), we found out there wa s aviolation, and it was
VMWare. We do a lot of enforcement actions, and we usually ahve to be quiet,
to be as friendly and welcoming as possible. This way, they know they can come
into compliance as quietly as possible.

This guy, Bradley, he is an amzing person. He has defneded softwar freedom
tirelessly, and he was ED of SFC at th etime. During the process, they made
great progress, and after much back and forth, it turned out that on the linux
kernel, there was a major violation. In 2014, they said they wouldn't comply.
They came to a different conclusion (you can laugh). we reached out to as many
ambassadors as they could, to be business friendly an dhelp convince them, but
they were not successful. WE contacted Christoph Hellwig, 20th of the top 1000
contributors, and 4th among third party code reviewers.

Til Yaeger, he represeneted Daryll Yulty(SP fail)

They statrted to work for a year to get compliance, and they had a year of
back and forth to try to get compliance. After all that, they wanted to
settle, and have an NDA to find out the terms of the settlement... not a
sincere offer...


WE were left with no choice but to sue. WE tried to do everything we could,
but at the end of th eday, if you aren't willing to go to court, it isn't
worth having copyleft. This is a really important case. This is the first case
that involved derrivative works.

WE can say things like "if a license has no teeth, whey would anyone follow
it" we can talk about codeing being forever free, but if we aren't willing to
stand up and go to court, it falls apart.

What is interesting, companies have been doing analysis around the derrivate
works interpreations. Ther is a Greg K H, who says he had private convos in
dark rooms, and they say, one-on-one, they all agree on the derrivate works
issue, but no one will say in public. WE need clarity. If the analysis by
corporations, that hte derrrivative works provisions are not as strong as we
think they are... then we should know that...


#vmwareDTRT


TO ont release a derrivate work is to not follow the spirit of the license. WE
are not asking for much, just do the right thing.

happily, after we launched suit, the statement of support came from the FSF.
The quote from John floored me:

"The point of the GPL is that no one can claim rights and then kick away the
ladder"

We had all thse organizations support this kind of action. We had kernel
develoeprs feel like they could come forward and say they supported the law
suite. Some had never come out in support of enforcement before, but when they
saw how hard we worked to NOT file a suit, they decided to step up.


The reacion from companies has been interesting. NO companies have made
statements about the suit, orther than VMWare, who said they are in
compliance... what is interesting that internal discussion at companies has
been surprisingly supportive.

"They shoudl read our Open Source 101 materials" anon company

Enforcing the GPL is very political. When I came to conservancy a year ago, I
htought I owuld be able to get compliance without suit, and put a friendly
face on it. Bradley was telling me the whole time "you think you can make it
nice, and ask them nicely, but they simply won't unless they have to" I spent
a whole year trying to prove him wrong, bu the was right.

WHile lots of the reaction is mostly positive, we've had one funder threaten
to pull funding from SFC because of htis action. It has been very interesting
to find that out first had. SFC is only 3.25 employees. Most of our activities
are supporting the over 30 FOSS projects. WE host Outreachy, and we have lots
of things we do, and we keep doing enforcement because it is the backbone of
the GPL.

WE launched a fundraiser, and got an anon 50K match, and we're 83% of that
match. We've had over 1000 donations, and that is a lot of people who care
abou tthe GPL. WE need your help as advocates, we need you to help explain why
copyleft matters. Most importantly, seeing a public swell of support for
GPL/Copyleft could influence the suit itself. It escalates the issue to one of
public importance. We don't wnat to bring litigation, or go to court, we want
compliance. WE lauchned copyleft.org with guides of information about the GPL,
and it is itslef COpyleft, so please contribute and make improvements. Even
helping us with typos, and questions for things that don't make sense helps
us. We wanted a living document, that all people can contribute to. One things
we added was an analyss of a pristine source cnaddat, and the think penguin
wireless router. We had a product that we were able to demonstrate our
analysis. It means that industry lawyers who are concerned with what we look
at, can see, and that will help them.


We filed suit,a nd it launced with fanfare, bu twe hav ea long road to go. ONe
suit in germany won't make all companies come into complaicne tomorrow. WE're
going to do it together, OK? I would say that you ahve al ot of power in this.
RMS said that software freedom is political. YOu can go into your children's
schools, for example. It can be exhausing to talk basic issues, but it is
worth it. Blog. Talk about it. On the internet. Help me, stand up for the GNU
GPL, we can do it together.
 
We can apprecaite your help and input. Any quetions?

I was astounded by how much develoeprs knew about legal issues an licenses,
sometimes more than me. Ther eis no magic in being a lawyer. I have a legal
degree, I went to lawschool, and a license, but that dosn't mean I have
magical konwledge that other people cannot get themselves. Start with the
summary materials, but dive into the licenses. Much of the legal udnerstanding
in the field was surmised orignally by making guesses. WHich is why our case
now is so important, it would bring clarity. mayb ewe'll have some more info
after this.

You said some people get upset when you do GPL enforcement. YOu are involved
in FOSS, and somehow, they odn't like about enforcement. What are some of the
kinds of motivations, why would poeple say that?

A: Company reps who put pressure on us not to suport. Many say "I peronslly
really support compliance and enforcemnt, but "THOS GUYS" upstairs think it is
bad for business" for a long time, the argument was we would chill adoption,
and that it would scare away customers, things like that. I think that what
we've seen, since we've had those warnings, none of those suits have curbed
any adoptoin. but. we've seen companies pressuring developers to choose
yielding and permissive liecnes, which I htink is dtermental for companies,
and individual devs.

Q:  I hoe this suit succeeeds, mostly so that the collective glare of devs
across the world. Then there is a precedent set, and no one can ever question
it again, right?

A:  Well, this is in Germany, and on a specific kinds of  derrivate works.
There are many jurisdictions, and many ways companes are violating the GPL.
Thi sis a good case to bring, but documents in Germany by default are not
public by default. We home VMWare will disclose the complaint. We think this
is going to take a long time.

Q:  You amy have answered this, is there a chance of losing the case?
A:  IN any litigation, there is always a chance of losing. The SFC is
supporting Hellwig. What if we lose? WE know. A bad outcome in this case is
ultimately good. We know how the license will interpretted in Germany. We'll
have to take the case in other jurisdictions. Even if a bad outcome in htis
case, we can go to other places.


Q:  IN a practical sense, if you win, what source code will VMWare be required
to release to come into compliance. Is it just a shim, or their entire biz
product. I recommend looking at the website, where you you can find a diagram.
I hope it is 

Q:  Since not every company supports this, has SFC lost any sponsorship over
this?
A:  Taking this action makes it harder for us to do corporate fundraising.
Everyone here should become a supporter, and an FSF member. The work we are
doing is in the interest of the public, and we need that support from
individuals. We can't keep going without individuals.


Libby: Super important. First thing I want to do is announce the lulzbot mini
silent auction. Thanks everyone for the bids.

A few last minute announces. Having a computer issue here...


it takes a ton of people to make LibrePlanet happen every year. Whether you
are here in person contributing in that way, volunteering your time over the
last few months. We have over 50 volunteers. Thanks to all the people who work
on staff at the FSF.
