MIT Stata Center
Boston, MA


I have a few things to rattle off at the beginning here:

First, silent auction is still ongoing. YOur bid will help you get a good
deal.

I want to clarify a few of RMS's comments.

There will be more detailed info about Day against DRM dayagainstdrm.org.
WE've had businesses do sales on DRM-free media. people publishing articles in
Unison on that day. Please stay tuned.

Mozilla trademark question, the portions that apply to the trademark about...

3rd: I neglected to mention the document  foundation, on March 25th. A unified
effort for free formats.

Don Robertson will be doing interviews of developers who released under
GPL/AGPL. This is an extension of a project on http://fsf.org/blog.


Tomorrow:
    Informal lunch meeting for FSF members.

This is a special LibrePlanet, it is our 30th anniversary

(Loud cheering)

WE were founded on 10/4/85, you may have seen the coverage in the New Yorker.
WE're going to be having some evening events, and sending more details.
OCt2-3, we'll be having an event in the Boston Area, with speakers and
celebration. WE'll be encouraging others around the world to celebrate in
unison, and globally.
It is an important to think strategically about what the Free Software
Movement should be doing, and the FSF in specific.

We're going to be making tough decisions about what we should be working on,
and the issue is huge, so we're going to make decisions about best ways to
devote time and resources.

We need to think about growing our resources. <!--$1.2M in a year-->

Please keep your contributions and memberships coming, and talk to your
employers about supporting free software.

Each year we do 2 award.


Project for Social Benefit
    Applying free software or the ideas of the free software movement, to
    apply to other social causes. Last year, it was the GNOME outreach program
    for women, now known as Outreachy, that has done a great.


    Reglue gives GNU/Linux computers to school-aged children in Texas. They've
    given over 1000 computers that were going into the wastestream, and they
    do it with Free Software. It gets them a computer, but it really gets them
    a computer that empoweres them.

    Please join me in congratulating the reglue project, and Ken Starks.

    Ken:
        *Plays text-to-speech*

    Ken will present tomo at 10:40am

Advancement of Free Softwar i
    individual who make contributions in the spirit of Free Software.

    Sebastian Segovnier(SP) Orthunk

    I would like to thank you all, it is a suprise for me. Thanks to my
    fmailyt. I'd like to say something about healthcare, it is something tha
    twill benefit from Free Software in the future. I attended an event called
    Health in France. I've seen private companies who are trying to gather the
    data on all the patients and make money. We ahve the possiblity to control
    the health data of patiencts, somethign we shoudl keep in mind. When I've
    been speaking in Belgium, they are scareda bout ehealth. Theya re scared
    devices will dehumanize the treatment of patients. I think FreeSoftware
    is a goo a good solution for this.

    I think there are still a lot of work to do in this area, and I ohpe in
    the follwing year, we provide more solutions. My software is one that is
    stargeted to hospitials, but there are many more patiencts, and many more
    doctors.


We're goign to do something a little different, we usually don't open
nominations till fall, but I think that maybe while I'm here. So we're going
to nominate people

Award-nominations@gnu.org
