Benjamin Mako Hill
    FSF board, prof of communication at U washington
Karen Sandler
    ED of SFC, Propbono council
Matthew Garrett
ginger coons
    Editor Chief, LibreGraphics
Zach
    OSI Board
Matthew Garrett
    Security Dev, FSF Board




WElcome to our session oth ehigher proiroty projec tlist. I'm going to try to
give you a few minutes of background on th eilst, and what it is that we have
to do. WE're going to talk about this process we have to go through. We're
going to open it up to questions about process/steps forward, to talk about
prirorities in the movement, reflected in the list we're creating.


The list was created first 1o years ago, to point out, and point mmember of
community to the most pressing problems we face. Historically, and
technically, missing pieces, software that was causing a big problem for
users.


The initial ist, had 4:
    OpenOffice
    Flash under Free License
    GNU compiler for Java
    GNU Classpath


Within 18 months of releasing this list, SUN started the process that lead to
the free version of java. That said, the list over time, became something not
revised frequently. It was maintained by staff, and sometimes people would
just add things that would stay for long periods of time. There have been
quetions about "why is this on/off the list?"

Reality is, the staff, while they have lots of energy/expertise, they don't
have all the time, and they need th broader community. The board supported a
process through which a broad number of people across FOSS would be able to
come together and revise the list going forward. To have an updated and
proiroty list. WE announced a few months ago of the creation of htis new
committee. Poeple who are not here: 

Seth Schoen
Lydia Pincher
Mike Linksvayer, very involed within creative commons.


This group was selected by staff/board, and charged with "telling us what is
important?"

Even with our broad expertise, we've decided that we needed more input. SO
we've been collecting an enormous amount of feedback.

So, that has sort of beent he basic process. Now going to pass of to Ginger.


Ginger
    The importance of doing that public call, and the surprising things that
    wa've discovered. The things that have been importat to the Free Software
    pbulic. We had 144 responses over 3 months. A few things turned up. Tax
    software and accounting software. None of us had thought of it, except
    maybe Karen. A solid 6 people had independently come up with the same
    idea.

    There was an exciting debate over GNASH. Some people said "Flash is dead"
    and some said "it needs more work" or said "replace it with shumway" or
    "html5 does this for us"

    There were lots of lovely disagreements, though they didn't know they
    were. It is going to be fun to go over these over the ocming monh.s


Karen
    Classifying and thinking abou thtis info, we wanted to make categorties.

    Things that make Free Software available to lots of people. Tech software
    touches lots of people.
    Things that are cascading. Enabling users to break the log jam of not
    using free software.
    Frontier
        Going lower and lower into the stack, making sure the bar for freedom
        is not set too low.

Seth
    One thing I'm curious to hear about is the role of this list itself in
    providing resources and motivating things. A greater proportion of
    software, when the list started, was system software developed in C. The
    interchangablility of hackers the, was much higher. As the set of things
    that are on the list have gotten broader, adn the context of conributors
    along with it.

    I question whether people use or look at this list. Particularly, when
    skills that are particular.

BMH
    Many people come to FSF and say "I wanna help improve things, what should
    I work on?" As the list becomes stale.

Seth
    It would be great to hear about how you ahve/will use this list.

Zach
    We went through all the feedback we got, and decided which ones were a
    good match. We tagged all the emails to look for macro topics that came
    up. Is this problem universal/cascading/frontier/.... one of those 4

    First one, projects listed currently:
        Reverse Engineering Projects, which has always been clear by FSF.

    GNASH
        GNASH is too focused to be a high priority, but to generalized into
        video/audio on the web

    Free Hardware
        Coreboot/Libreboot

    SKype-case
        Replacement for this to help people to communicate over the net.

    Smartphones and FreeOS for Phones
        one of the top suggestions
    Everyting Related to Federating/decnetralizing the web
        moving away from service providers that concentrate content.
    Other inititatives that we think will be beneficial
        Outreach programs, ones that get underserved/underrepresented
        communities into Free Software
    Government/State
        Anytime gov requires Proprietary software to do things. citizens when
        they get

BMH
    WE're looking to publish the full list by end of April. WE'll all be
    making blogposts too. WE're going to get feedback today during our
    "preview" and we plan to revisit each year.

Q:  3D cad software.
A:  This is something that came up in the public consultation; better 2d cad,
better 3d cad, and drivers for 3D printers.

Q:  Also revision control for 3d models!


BMH
    The mail list is still open. It may be hard to update this list based on
    today, but next years's list.

Q:  The HPPL is very egalitarian about listing them, but I've heard RMS
    emphasize one member of the list, Reverse Engineering. How do you feel
    about a "highest" priority list of one.
A:  Someone suggested putting together an "american idol" style contest to
fill the list.

A:  Seth: The "Holiday Wish List" has been suggested for policies that
companies/government we wish would make happen.

A:  BMH: Good idea to help 
Q:  SELinux was supported by someone, wasn't it NASA? (NO, NSA< one vowel off
;)

Ther eis an organization called 18F at the federal level to help gov
contribute yes, but doing it at the city/state level that helps states to
share work in a meaningful way. Going back a few years, we had a lot of states
writing their own health exchange software, that contractedd with the same
companies, FRee software could have helped.

The FSF Could work here, but it is more of a policy issue than a technical
one.


Q:  HPPL has a few roles, but the one that stood out to me is for the new to
the community people who want to work on things that change the world but
don't know what to do. There are some members of the list where it is clear to
see the collaboration point. THere is a link to the mailing list on some, but
others, there is nothing. There are more general projects on the list where
probably no one is doing anything on them, but we don't konw. It woudl be nice
if therew as a reference for reach project, even if it is just a ticket. Would
could start a hosted list. Getting a common point to get people together.

A:  A fifth criteria of "actionable?"
A:  For charities, for example, some poeple are looking for peopel to tell
them how to donate to charity. Some peopel who make these lists, more money
would help. Scientific progress is blocked for example. Making it clear what
kinds of skills or resources needed would be a great thing to include, and
also what resources our community can provide.

Q:  My question is s aimsliar nature ot previous quetsion. If you look at this
list, and you listen to the types of software people are asking for, they ar
eusually long-standing. CAD software has been an issue forever.... these are
old problems, which means they are difficult, and require specialized
knowledge the average contributor doesn' thave. What does the FSF do to
incentivize (whether publicity, or compensation, or equipment) the tasks.

A:  One thing we can do is a bounty program, and I think it would be a
horrible idea. Setting fixed amounts of money for pieces of work is a bad idea
because the amount of money is large, but the amount of work is larger, and
you don't know how many people you ar ecompeting against, and then introduces
another initiative to keep your work private so that others won't pull away.

A:  Recognition is something we can do. Someone will be recognized for their
contirbutions to the community.

A:  Recognition drives many poeple in the Free Software world. Providing
hardware in the case it is expensive or rare, that makes it harder to make the
case that it is a high-priority problem. On the whole, figuring out ways to
develop better functional collaborative communities.

Q:  In eocnomics, there is a concept of pack dependence. So what are you doing
to avoid going on a locally maximum, but not globally maximum path?
A: The plan of this committee was to do a first "big" round, and then
republish the list every year. If we hit a local maxium, we can backtrack.


Q:  PJ McDermott. Embedded systems are a nightmare for software freedom. So
much of the software our lives and society depend on, they are not free. TVs,
appliances, voting systems, medical devices, automotive braking systsms...
these are not easy problems to solve, and may not be actionable, but ar every
important and critical to a free society. There is work on mobile OS's for
phone's tablets, but it is important to not ignore the other systems.

A:  Embedded devices had not been suggested that much, but we've wanted to
cover in general, so please send us suggestions.

Q:  Including people from other backgrounds, I'd like to double down on that.
I noticed that at the beginning of the list, OpenOffice was on the list, but
LibreOffice is not. It needs to be. Network services are huge, and googledocs,
and office365 are taking over academia. Making the documents networked for
collaboration is hugely important.

A:  Big quetsion, we're not yet clear, my personal take, stuff that is in the
HPPL should be in there to change the status quo. My personal take on
LibreOffice is absolutely necessary. But LibreOffice is doing a great job, adn
I think they will make it work on their own.

Q:  An issue taht I think should be addressed is the process of making Free
Software taht is started nowadays is now on github or bitbucket, and most of
these platforms are closed, and worse, not federated. If we want to not force
our devs to use proprietary, we need alternatives.

A:  When we use proprietary tools to build free software, it sends a bad
message...


Q:  All of you, have worked in some way or another on getting people into a
project. What are you looking for in projects to be listed? What do you think
should be done to get people from "I think this is important" to "Getting shit
done."

A:  Diff projects have diff methods. Depends on the project. I love the
suggestion that projects have an actionable criteria component.

A:  I think it is a good idea, and I want to make a clear description for how
people can get involved.

A:  WE can tyr to establish a synergy, a clear path for contribution, and
spreading the culture through advertising. That is more difficult for a
project htat invites peopel to start from scratch.

A:  Having a paragraph to say "This is how we'd support a project" is
something that is on us.

A:  Best practices should be a HPP.

Q:  2 issues that I'd like to see discussed more: outreach to people who are
def not software developers. I'd like to see outreach for artist work, and
beta testers. These are high priority things to break! It would be nice if
there was a highlight for projects that have non-develpoer activities.

the other is the outreach proprietary communities, saying "what are the
high-priority" conversions.

A: User communities to ask what we could do to switch, or developers?
Q: both


Q:  There is a disparity of specificity between the video stuff, and other
projects.
A:  This is reflected by revsions over time. There are diff things to
prioritize over time.

Q:  Connor. There is a benefit that you may not have thought of. Before I
became a member of the Free Software movement, I was reading about it. "There
is no replacement for skype?" Finding that on the HPPL was a big benefit.
"they know this a problem, they don't live under a rock" Part of what I think
with helping to "know there is a hole", the Free Software Directory doesn't
want to recommend Proprietary.

the directory is based on a wiki, so if we had another namespace, say
"non-free" and have those pages semantically linked to their replacements.

A:  Making sure Users know about free software is a HPPL

Q:  Maybe you don't agree on the importance, but so many people use computers
more when the encounter software that allows them to put notes, evernote and
onenote, they are blowing up in the productivity community.


Q:  You talke da bout best practices, and systematize, Karl Fogel did a
kickstarter to produce a second edition of his book. Part of that is doing
case-studies, and the HPPL has some projects that have reached a completion
stage, and could be great examples of things that have been done. tihnking
about the lifecycles of HPPL, and visibility when things get checked off the
list, should be a priority.

A:  If LibreOffice isn't on the list, it isn't because the problem is sovled.
It' sint'. WE're moreso saying this is "this year's" emphasis.

Q:  I'm an artist who want to contibute to fee culture. Would it make sense to
have this list for people who need icons/graphics or non-technical.

