@amitorit
@biellaColeman
@astradisastra
@remy_d

@amitorit
This will be ultimately an open exchange.

@biellaColeman:
I'll just tell you what we're going to do. Each one of us will present some material, give some context for 10-15 minutes, then sit up here an dhave a conversation about eachothers books/work, then open it up.

If you have questions, please interrupt. I wannt t the ahank amit fo rhte invite.


What I'm going to give is a basic intro to anonymous, so you ahve some sighnposts taht will help with discussion.

Book was published, originally, looking like this, which editors thought looked too much like an 80's video game. We moved to the brand image you see today. You'll notice the subtitle was gone. I was clear that I didn't want a subtitle that said the "story of anonymous." For reasons that will become clear, you'll see why I picked the many faces.


Why study a faceless group like a maze? I spent a lot of time oin IRC. I spent 5-7 hours a day, on IRC. Thta was where teh great majority of my research happened. I was a "go-fer" for journos and anons. I took them to IRC, and spent an enormous amount of time translating the worl dof annonmyous. Part of my research migrated from online to meeting arrested hackers, like Jeremy Hammond. I went to prisons, and trials. I fyou were arrested in UK, yo ugot out quicker than the US. This is me with 4 members of Anon/Lulzsec, who are now out of jail at the royal court theatre.


The book would not have been possible if not for th epeopel who were arrested. Anonymous is difficult to define. It was an exciting entity to research, and one difficult to put your finger on. Multitudinous, proflic, unpredictable. i tis difficult to forecast their next "steps." WHen I had mentioned there are many faces, there are many facets:
    
    It is a protest movement
    a communal idea
    symbol for popular revolt
    competing tactics/gropus
    fantasy/political possiblilty
    laboratory for experimenting in self-effacemnet and anonymity
    
It is very frowned on to seek fame or recognition. They have been involved in over 200 operations around the world. It is hard to say any universal statement about the political effect of thier operations yet. Michelle Foucult(sp)
The real political task in a society such as ours is to criticize...

This image, from #OpFerguson, really captures that.


if it is about activism, it is also a historical aberration. Anonymous was synonymous with internet trolling, a common form of pranking. Anonymous wasn't the only group, but did get famous for internet trolling. In case you don't know what it is, it can take many forms and formats. A celebrity troll, Weave, is trying to be as offensive as possible. Here is an image from 4chan that started in 2010, when they were trying to troll me. Thankfully this didn't take off, but if it did, i would have gotten doxed, and hundreds of pizzas delivered to my house...

Trolls enjoy desecrating anything remotely sacred.

If you ask, Why, the say "for the lulz."

6 months after they were designated the "internet hate machine" they u-turned into activism. How did this machine get put into a new realm?

Tom Cruise, is in part responsible for this. there was a video, leaked by "little-a" anonymous, who were critics of the church of scientology. it was a recruitment video that spread like wildfire. The church threatened big time.

A number of people collaborated to make this video, which I'm going to play 40 seconds of...

What happened next, critics of the hcurch reached out to anons and said "hey, maybe you should challenge the church."

They went ahaed and organized a global day of street protests in 100+ cities, thousands of people showed up to protest at churches. This was the moment of transition. Operation Chanology was a monthly action that happened. by 2011-12, it had been used by diff groups and individuals from occupy to arab spring. Trolling continued to be used as a tactic.

There is much more to say, but I'm going to turn it over to Astra

@astradisasta

I live a rather powerpoint free lifestyle, thankfully.

Noam Chomsky. I'll begin with him cause he was a double influence. Manufacturing Consent, planted some seeds.

I went on to direct feature length films on philosophy... he is an influence on my filmmacking, but also my book.

What is the progressive media critique now? The chomskyan critique was somewhat discarded.

COnsolidation
CEntralization
Commericialism

Too much writing on digital revolution focuses on the revolution, but there has been much carry-over. The media dinos have not been vaquished... The news guys haven't just defeated the old ones, they collaborate in troubling ways. Speaking to commercializm, manufacturing consent to manufacturing compulsion. The underlying sense changes how we think about art and buesinss. More is better. The pathology of the advertiser dirven model. So many "Free" in name alone services.


The book talks about different aspects o fhtis: IP, Net Neutrality, but railing against advertising an dcommericailism. Not just because it is irritating, but because of so much of what happens with databrokers and collection can lead to discrimination. Now the databrokers can follow you around and read your email, gathering info all the time, and using it to target marketing and discriminate. I've killed my "real" persona on facebook, and I have another that does activism. Mostly I'm in touch with people attenidng a for-profit colleges, and utterly completely different ads now... scams and consolidation loans.


So mcuh of the infrastructure is the same. Re-entering into the age of sponsored content. There was a scandal at buzzfeed because an article critical of Dove, a sponsor, she had to leave journalism over.

Public funding of media to create compeition in media.


Subtitle is "taking back culture an dpower in the digital age" The subtilte is more what I'm thinking about htees days.

The way that internet and financial networks are the same, how do we get traction in this dispersed system? I got involved in occupy when I was writingt my book. I saw biella's tweets while she was chasing anonymous.

When occupy started, I had a romantic idea that I would "get involved and get my hands dirty." I didn't wan tto stand on the sidelines and film passively. I knew it wasn't going bring about the revolution, and that it wouldn't last forever. I'm not going to make media, I'm going to be involved. To be involved in movements is to be involved in communication. I realized to be involved with movements is to make media. MLK specifically chose to protest in birmingham where bull conner was in charge and would react with spectacle.

There is another apocryphal story about him telling the photograhper to take picutres.


Once the occupation was over, I got involved in #strikedebt. Debt brought so many to occupy. People buried in student/medical debt. This could unite people that didn't otherwise have much in common, thinking about their situtation in a political context. The reason you're drowing in school debt is because there is no public option.

The rolling jubillee launched in late 12 to buy 50K of debt to cancel 1M. Buffalo is actually the epicenter of this now! To learn more, there's a great book called "Bad Paper" that details this industry - http://www.amazon.com/Bad-Paper-Chasing-Street-Underworld/dp/0374108234

We ended up raising 700K+, cancelling 33M.

We launched an org called the debt collective, on Feb 23rd. A platform for debtors to come together and get fair terms from creditors. A collapsing for-profit comapny, enrolled over 100K students at peak. it committed fraud up and down... it would lie about job placement, bribe companies to hire poeple for one day to gin up numbers... they'd say graduates had jobs in their field...

we are fighting with the people who attended the school, launching with 15 students. The Dept of Ed proped up this criminal institution,a nd we're not going to pay.

The gov reached out to us to met with CFPB, treasury, staff from attorney general's office. The news has become increasingly enthusiastic. Members of congress did the same thing. The NYT lead editorial was endorsing our position, and crediting the strikers.

An interesting parable about using online space as a tool to come together, but then, to build a power base that doesn't depend on massive numbers. It started as the Corinthian 15, but now is the Corinthian 100.

Thank you!


Collaborative Discussion
====

Biella:
Who here teaches undergrads? Who thinks they are blindly over-enthused about digital media?

I agree. You want a book that helps, but gives a critical lens. "The People's Platform" does it for a number of reasons. When I was reading it:
    
    Measured, but not moderate"
    elegant, but based on facts and studies"

One of the important things around the book, the importance put on sharing, participation, free culture, and mobilized with facts. The over $7B spent on advertising could be put to public use. The Ap in 2009, revealed the US army spent 4B, and employed X people for public relations!

The other passage, also points to how a lot of new media formations exist within the shell of the old. this can be problematic when existing power structures get transfered to the future. It shows that those entities seeking change must be clever in how they work with existing structures.

many chapters deal with investigative journalism, and astrid talks about wikileaks. you had just visited the gulf after the BP disaster. While there was much reporting, it was difficult for indy media sources to get heard.

"By sitting int he baots, I realized how profoundly the decks were stacked against indy storytellers." The devastation, the healthrisks, the work needing to be done. Even Julian Assange was unable to act independently. Wikileaks was originally designed aroud the idea tht the public would make sense of data. That turned out to be not all true, Assange lamented.


media are the only channels that have the size to have impact.

Motivation and reosurces, time an dpower, these are assets not evenly distributed. These are inequalities we take into account on the new networked playing field.

Assange was operating in the Utopian height of "put it out there" media theory.

had we had a rhetoric abou tdigital media recognizing these realties from the get-go, he maybe wouldn't have lost 4 years on this strategy. that is why the critique astra offers is so important. It isn't just an analysis of unequal dynamics.


Astra
You do have to make those mistakes. One thing abou thte strike project, it emerged out of a failed attempt on this "pledge of refusal" where 1M people would sign first. Put it on the internet, and then a million people will show up, was much less powerful than that 15 people we started with.


that first day of Occupy was pivotal for me. i saw an earlier Biella lecture on trolling/scientology, and I was skeptical... who didn't wanna see these guys -- scientology -- get trolled? When I saw occupy, I saw not nihilists or libertarians... too much earnest drumming... "I love democracy more than I hate this drum circle."

Alot has been written, and good films made, but in her journalism, she avoids the "cautionary tales." In the context of anon, that can be true, but it applies to any radical action. The risk-averse writing from a moral highground, without considering how much political power actors actually have. The ethnography, and what they learned, was really amazing. All the ethings that are debated by outsiders "is it ethical to dox?" "Will there be blowback?" These were all debated internally, and they knew the critiques that would come from the outside.

"Don't you know that rollingjubiliee will not topple predatory lending???"

YES. I KNOW.

The "Nerd Square" is the next place I wanna be. The "Nerd Scare" [http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/future_tense/2015/01/barrett_brown_sentencing_the_u_s_government_overreaction_to_hackers.html]  and all the crack-downs and arrests, and the real price people have paid, often knowingly...


I wanna read a little bit, honoring the excess tha tsocial movements have to have. If you want to create social change, you gotta be in exccess of what you are asking for:

More than any other movement, annon, and lulzsec, gives shape to a number of nietze themes...

Biella
It has been interesting to write a book tha tis at once sociological, but also taking a political stance in favor of anonymous. i've also been pinned to the cross at times, and interstingly, I cannot believe how many journalists were like "great book, but what bias."
it has to do in part with the controversies around anons.


Biella
When you were writing this book, I wa slike "whoa, is astra trained as a socilogist?" I'd like to hear more about your strategies, and your tactics and goals, and once it was out, what would you ahve done differently?

Astra
a book is a rhetorical act? In my mind, I was hoping this would reach multiple audieences. i was hoping for something to htrow at techno-utopians, but something teachable enough to show the basics of political economy today.

It was situating myself between the cheerleaders of tehc progress, and the naysayers who say it is making us shallow and stupid. I wanted to remind people that the tools are embedded in realities, and we need to think about them in context, and I will patiently remind you with piles of empirical evidence.

It is easier to be nostalgic if you are a dude... the "good old days" of 50's publishing, no thank you.

I spent little time in an academic context, I'm a practitioner. There is so much happening in this, and I feel like I have a unique experience beign an indy film maker living by my pen. people are going to invoke these conditions, I may as well ground the convo and bring my own to the table.

Biella
What would you change?

Once you put in the final edit, you can go down the wormhole of regret for so long... many writers who wrote about tech, liek the snowden revaltions. Lauren, directed citizen 4, I think addressing that, and the way that the community, and we have responded to the surveillance debate less on private sector, more on government. i can see a bit more snowden. I would probably expand the ned where I talk about hte solutions. I had an editor who told me I could describe problems and not be prescriptive and solve them.

I would throw the same thing back at you Biella.

Biella
there are so many things I wnat to say, but I only have 4000 words. I wish I had made the stakes of representing anon as an activist more clear. because I was seeing them so much, I'm still shocked that peopel don't see them as activists. it was clear to me, after 6 years, you take it for granted.

one thing remarkable, while the state tried here and there to tag anon as terrorists, one moment in spcific, when there was a WSJ article based on really flimsy flimsy flimsy journalistic evidence that anon had the capability to take down critical infrastructure... it came two weeks after polish parliamentarians took the mask to protest a copyright treaty. The government was losing the propaganda battle, and it seemed like a last attempt.

We live in a moment when enviros are treated like eco-terrorists... I htink the trigger is pulled, and designation can really stick... part of hte book was to show why they are legit activists, not terrorists.

Critics are pointing fingers all the time. Mistakes are made, and I put them fornt an d center in the book, but then I start to catalog all the mistakes made by journlaists, and it is more remarkable. Doxing the incorrect founder of bitcoin, to the rolling stone article on rape in WV... many of the things anon is faulted for, is happening in the News.

Am I gonna say Journalism is worhtless? No. Critique the moment, and assess it. There are moments when mistakes are made. If I bring in that kind of journalistic perspective, we may look at it differently.

Measuring the success of anon is hard to qualify.

Biella
If there isn't a legal change in the next year, students see it as worthless... when occupy was dismantled, alot of people said "well, that was useless..." which is a shame. their spirit rises up at different times. With anon, there are many tangible outcomes. Scientology may not be terrorizing a great many in the population, but now critics can be public.

Another thing, that relates to our moment we're in, anon is part of a larger trend of geeks and hackers who are willing to whistleblow, and work with the 4th estate. Anon has been part of that trend. I find it just a bit troubling that people want measurement, in a quantified sense.

Much of what they do is "casting a shadow" and having a persona.

Biella
Too often radical movements are counterposed to non-radical movements. in the case of anon, the number of rape cases they reported. They were working with reporters.

Advertisers are taking advantage of this all the time. Press releases republished as news. i'd rather live in a world where we have investigative reporters. You can't go deep, but you can go very wide in the news cycle. I wanted to be in something multifaceted, not just public ed, but aiming at the levers of power to get something concrete.

You cannot imagine how much people in power appreciate these things.

Went to DC with our group, and walking around the hill, you see there are so many other people being paid to do the same talking to officials that you are.

Biella
I was in DC when Virginia owned up to the fact that the voting machines were insecure. Some scientists had been working for 10 years to show they were insecure. The Comp Scientists would still ahv ea role to play, but in anon hacked the voting machines, that would have only taken 1 day. NGO's and CSci's could still have a role after.


Bernius
Laws are set up that if anon did that, someone would have sacrificed their life/freedom to make that info public.

Biella
IN Germany, the CCC has literally hacked things. In the US, they just throw your ass in jail. In the Context of the US, that is a huge risk. Assange, Manning, Snowden, they paid the price.

Slunn
You have companies that professionally pen-test and hack to find vulns. We have a large group of folks at RIT who can do this.
Even if you pen-test legally, even with permission, you can still be sent to jail.

Biella
When you take risks, there is always going to be competing forces. You're not sure which one is going to win. There is farmore a mobilized hacker community, but obama comes along with a much worse cyber secureity initiative... this is always the case when it comes to politics. YOu push the envelope, the government pushes back. WIht a strong enough group,b ut the future is uncertain.

Only people into computers are aware of much of these issues. Already these worlds are not separate. HOw do you raise these concerns for those who are not savvy?

Biella
Molly Sauter writes about digital dissent, check her talk tomorrow at the MAGIC Center

Astra
Even the dept of education has to agree with them, though they are taking risks.

Q
It strikes me, having both of you on the stage, there is for some reason a sucess in what anon is doing, but a failure in what wikileks is doing, though they are in the same type of work. What is causing the disconnect? If there is a failure in wikileaks, what is bringing people to work?

Biella
I think wikileaks is a success, and has been a success for a long time. What I really like about this passage, she was highlighting the moment wikileaks became sucessful, workign with mainstream media. In part, because assange was experimenting as he went on... for some reason acitivists are not allowed to fail... snowden learned from wikileaks. Assange was central in getting snowden to russia, and helping with legal advisory. The fact that others are leaking is more indication.

The sony emails have been out for a while. For some reason, journalists weren't there sifting through it. You need labor, and stable institutions to do it. Thta is what I loved about the book. Much writing about FOSS , was non-institutional labor. Python, and Debian, and LInux were institutional, but the pundits are saying "it was peer-to-peer." which just wasnt' true. Anon isn't insitutional, but they have a different role to play. You'll have some players that are institituional, and some that are reactive and on the fly. The way they reinvent themselvs is powerful, but not all political enttiteis do that thankfully.


To what degree is criminaliztion pushes the subject matter you are working on? Many of the poelpe in jail have been trapped by existing laws. They try to imagine what traffic will do next. What is the connection with cirminalization?

Astra
In some states, yes, you can lose your drivers license in some states for example. They are taking real risks. Part of their efforts is to call attention to the legal binds people are in economically.

One thing we're trying to do, is raise awareness of criminalization of poverty. There is a way in which it is a crime to be poor. Courts extract fees from the poor. Debters prisons. It is supposedly unconsititional to put people into jail because they are poor. There was also a recent story in the New York Times about North Carolina's putting people into jail for inability to pay child support. http://t.co/uZCIBaetzZ

I'm not just thinking about dissent, but poverty. Public morality, public outrage, builds movements. There could be a lot of traffic by making clear that the first amendment rights to protest in analog space, does not exist in the online space. It really is not being done outside of certian circles.

Biella
Definitely having very public campaigns has made a huge difference. one case, Matt DeHart [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matt_DeHart] it is kafka-esque. Spying, fake child porn, he was entirely under public scrutiny, and what the prosecutors were doing was *outrageous.* Criminaliztion has to be met withs trong campaigns, because it has a big impact on the outcome of hte cases.

Q
I'm thinking about the video you showed, the early one, with the music that calls forth that feeling of fascism. People were posting a similar video for the Westboro Baptist Church. That one didn't seem like a joke, and the people posting it didn't make it seem liek one either. There was some follow-up about what happened.

There was one about ISIS, and one about Israel. They were similar. Are we waiting for anon to follow through with their challenges? Am I waiting for them to bring down ISIS? What is the purpose of that if it is really a joke?

Biella
At that point, anon's identity was associated with trolling. the kind of expectation was that that video would troll, and then vanish. It mutated into a consistent activist orientation. But the early aethetics in those videos carried on with their "earnest" operations. Ofcourse they are not going to take down ISIS, but they are trying to take them down off twitter, and offline. It is a way of them to register their dissent.

It is not a joke. Humor was part of their political... they wanted to attack WBC, but they wanted to also troll them too. Trolling can have a vicious side to it, right?

The joking remains, but as kind of, because it has been integrated into the political culture. Their material is hard to read sometimes... in a day and age when there is so much datamining and predictive analysis, you have someone who is unpredictable.

Q
It comes from this place of trolls. Is this something that in the political, because it comes from non-activism, is that the true power of anon? They have a hacker identity, is there anything for you, astra, that other groups can learn from Anon.

Astra
we have attack ads, right? isn't the ultimate form of political trolling?
Biella
Many don't seek credit for what they do, and much of what they do is traditional activism that you *would* want to take credit for. Having a movement that forgoes fame in a culture of extreme celebrity is very important. We're not going to let the media create one or two celebrities out of this movmeent, that is powerful.

Being somewhat unpredictable, that can be effective. CUlture jammiing, there are other groups that have done this, but that is something that is a really good tactic.

Biella
Gamergate was the moment I thought the trolls were going to take the name back, but it didn't happen. I'll say one thing, I like to describe as a big clusterfuck. There are a lot of folks who believe earnestly in their cause, and then a ton of troll groups feeding into it. Mapping tha thas been very difficult. There are journalists and academics who have tried to interview.

Q
When I'm on social media, I see people advocating for things, but there seems to be a lack of response. Is the anonymity of anon, not having a leader, actually hurts anonymous?

Astra
YOu can step in and not expose yourself, so I think it helps anon.

What if there had been a different paradigm, and assange didn'thave to waste 4 years. Through weak-ties on the net, we can spread memes to start movements... we're losing the art of organizing.

I think the sort of cliche of online organizing, and that things will catch on like viruses has set us back... there are other ways. It is wonderful for communication, but at a certain point you ahve to raise the stakes and take it ot ht enext level. Meeting in person has been really essential to that process.

it is better to have a smal corps than a wide net, which flies in the face of the opinion.

Bernius
Getting a million people to pledge to do, versus 15 who DID it. Action that can be amplified.

Biella
this is where hackers can learn from the Free Software Movement. Debian has been around for 20 years, and they have an annual meeting. You can't just meet once at a hackathon.

The resource quetsion though, with devs who can work for compaines that spend on their conference. That is harder for a purely activist entity. One person cannot do it, and you need a group of people ove rtime.

Astra
A more nuanced account, correcting the myth. The "leader" of the 60's, the myth of self-organizing today.

It is intersting for people to learn from it. You can have all the data in the world, but if no one is making meaning from it then it is pointless.
