3 United Nations Plaza
UNICEF
05/07/15


Hi everybody

Thank you for joining us. It is great to have a triple-y sold out event.


My name is Chris Fabian, I co-lead innovation unit. We're joined by colleagues
from our Regional labs.


Our Executive Director, Tony Lake, on a discussion.


Tony
    What a difference it is already making!

    I took off my necktie, expecting me to become cool, but not so much ;)

    we're celebrating here, not only innnovations, but the results of the innovations.
    in terms of meetin the purposes of why we emphasize it; reaching disadvatnaged children. The results are staritng to come in in Uganda, so far, almost 1.5M who's births have bene registered. Thanks to SHirad(sp), ureport has registered well over 100K kids as ureporters, whoa are reporting on events in their community. We have 700K in over 14 countries reporitng now. It has huge implications in allowing youth to report. THe dev community then doesn't tell them, they tell the development comunity, deomcratizing development in ways we ahven't been before.

    Innovations help us find if textbooks, in EDUtrac. Toilets, and teachers, wehther they are working (both) *laughs*.

    including kids in georgraphic areas, disabliities, indiginous areas, and I could go on and on.


    The global innovation center, and innovation fund are at the heart of this. They will help us reach many more. The cente rin Nairobi, will be a center where we can risk failure--somethign I will come back to later--and the 5 core sponsors, the GOv of Korea, PHillips FOundation, UNICEF CA/UK/US. The cnter and fund work hand in hand, in that the center is the beginning of the stream. As we incubate and scale things, the fund helps. Then the center helps again to connect diff groups and countries.

    it all works hand-in-hand. The founding memebers, the Gov of denmark, and Disney/Lucas Films.

    All of you are part of this. All of you ar ecool. All ofyou are making a difference. YOu won't know which kids you will ahve helped, but you shoudl know there are 100k"s and Millions of kids you ar ehelping.


    I have a list of questions here, and you each have 2 minutes. Let me begin--we have people with first-hand experience. Caroline berevra(sp), we've had some interesting talks already.


    Q: Why are youth partnerhsips so important, what impact can they have?
    A: Activists. WHen we talk about 700K reporters in 14 countries. we're not jsut talking about reporters, but individuals. At 15, I particpated in the UN general assemlby session on children. It helped make me the person I am today. WE ahve over 250K users. I asked at the Summit, and she said the platform helped her to empower other girls, join clubs, and be more meaningful in her comunity. I spoke to a boy, he said his best experience was access to info. During ebola, he got info that was life-changing via sms. The potential is enormous... you can ignore 10, or 100 kids, but a billion, you can not.

There was an empahsis on how we worked wiht partners. I"d be curious as to why you supported the center?


I'm happy to be here repping public sector in republic of Korea. As you know, Korea's success story is a story of innovation by education, and by entrepreneurship. This is an example of what investing in next generation is. We are talking about post 2015 development. Global sustainable development goal will be announce din septer. Dignity, and Justice are part of that.

Creating solidarity, we surcharge $1 for every ticket from korea to overseas, which can be a reosource to help other countries, and brings in about $15M/year. Samsung, and other electornic companies, will suppor the "1000 Days project' to help the first part of a child's life. Samsung electronics will scale from Rawanda to Uganda, and other countries. WE can expand our assistance. WE want to do job tarining, and global citizenship education. There is a saying that You can count the seeds in an apple, but you cannot count the apples in a seed. WE're hoping to build 10's of millinos of apples in the future.

Public/private/media, all will benefit. THis is what this global cente ris about.
Rep. Of Korea

Tony
    what we do with CHildren today will decide fate of SDGs.

Data Science within MExico presidency's office.
Q: Why is real-time data so important?
A: Generating public policy is slwo and costly. POlicy that works is harder. IT is hard for govs to implement policyh. it is sometimes because of lack of information, and ability to test out if it is working. We may be perpetrating policy that doens't work, you don't know until many years after it has happene.d Real-time data is what we can do.

we can focus to analyze a situation more concisely. WE can see and implement a decision. After you immplment, you can ssee how it works. If it is working , youc an improve and scal eit up.

In the case of maternal mortality rates, it is ahrd to tackle because we don't see the data as it is happening. When we get the data, it is too late. With rapidPro. we can see the most vulnverable and at risk women. WE can get data, and be there as the problem arises, before it is too late. THis is a problem that plagues MExico,a dn the rest o th eworld.


Tony
    You can't manage innovations unless you get real-time info onw hat is working or isn't. Good point.


David Morley, Rajesh Ananden(sp). Realtime is at the heart of our innnvations.

Q: Why are you taking the lead, with the UK, on support for these efforts?
A: Canadian commitee belives so much that all the gains made in the last generation, we're in the middle of a child survival revolution. To keep them moving, we have to find new ways. I've heard you say many times "we've done the easy pats, and now things ar eogin gto get dififcult." to reach the children taht are really hard to reach, we ahve to innovatin. I've been fortunate to see them working. YOu mentioned birth registration, I was in Uganda, and saw the electronic registation taking place. I was convinced beyond, when a father was there getting registered for his passport for protection. "My daughter's name is Gift..." he said.


As the US fund, we're here thanks to our partners tha tbelive in thsi work, at the Walt Disney company. Because of their belive in creativity in every child. GE and PHizer, who fund many projects. Google who belive in th epoewre of inforamtion in the hands of all of us. From silicon valley to silicon alley, they've taken artisans into retailers, and drivers into taxi services. That is what UNICEF innovation is doing. WE've turned volutneers into supply chain managers. WE've taken rural Ugranda, who has a feature phone, and turned them into an agent of change to abolish corporal punhishments. That is the privlege we get to be a part of that.


Q: If youare' going to be an entrepreneur, if yhou are going to be the first WOman CEO in afgranistan , you ar etaking a reisk. ONe answer we gort was, the problem of the culture in the UN, which isn't risk taking. I'm curious what you've leanre,d and how you manage risk.

A: Conflict is still happening. THe government is not einfluence by entirety of country. Security and insurance are a measur eo the problem. There can be dangers that destroy businesses. Risks are sometimes in the cetegoriy. The software of the, Afgan businesses are not ready fo the changes. I started my business to get new technology into the coutnry. I faced problems with conservative people. I changed my business, and started using social media. THat changed my personal/busienss life, and we need these tools to empower other women. WE connected over 55K students. They elarne about IT, and became digital citizens. They are not thinkging about gender/color, they don't need a visa, they can be connected, an communicate. Risk allowed us to find other innovation. We have ll the business that has to be aware of, they can be prepared. They can take aciton appropriately afte rthat.

Tony
    A great illustration of the multiplier effect.

Phillips foundation/UNICEF UK. You were core sponsors. WHat led you to be among them?

UK
    THanks for the opportunity, it was obvous to us. We're 120 year old company, you may know us as CD/TV. We were lighting up the forbidden city, and we're in beijing with xray machines. WE hve the most sophisticated non-invasive diagnostic tools. We hve Africa portable ultrasounds. I would say I hve the best job in Philips, where I get o harness these innovtions. This is an opproutnity to be innovative, impactful, and caring.


David
    IT's great to be here on UK election Day. The polls close in about 20 mins. I'm missing the buzz of htat, but I believe deeply in this--the power of innovation to make a diff in the lives of children. UNICEF has been at the forefront for decades. WHen I first started 16 yrears ago, I asked one of my clleagues, how does it work? Innovation, Demonstrate, replicate, advocate. I've followed that ever since. You can't do it just once, you gotta do it all the time. WHne I heard, I jumped at the chance. I want to be at the heart of it. in UNICEF UK, it is part of our culture, and why we are successful. WE've done a lot of things which we think are innovative that have been picked up.
    WE had a parallell version of the G8 for kids in Germany. WE've bene at hte forfront of mobile fundraising. RapidFTR is amazing tool to help children to reunite in difficult humantirain situations.
    Fundraising innnovtion, we've been looking hard at how to harness the carbon market to get access to energy. There are many ways we can look for ways to finance the coming development goals. We're keen to bring new partners to the table, so we can have 20 peopel on this stage, helping to help children.


Prof. Anil Gupta. I really enjoyed hearing about the honeybee network. WE're workign hard in unicef in the way of horizontal network building. What were key factors in buidling it?

A: We were poor in the material, but not in tmind. The world has changed voer the last 25 years. WE've put over 200,000 ideas from our country and other districts in our countyr. If you give vocie to common people, they will share their ideas generally. Much more knowlege exists in open source. We realized that we know a great deal about micro-finance, bu tnot micro-venture fiance. The future transofrmation will happen throuhg this transformation. To be able to invest risk-captial. We have been working on the innovation for common people and children. The president has an innovation scholar in residence. They stay as a guest. Honeybee network shows grassroots innovtion. CHildren are not a sink of resources, but a source of innovation.


Mission of Demark. At the board meeitng, we identified factors like "measureing, and data, risk taking, but also financning. Denmark has played a leading role for providing not only financing, but the flexibilty. How did you come to the decision to be a leader?

Denmark as a small coutnry has lived on innovation. THis was extremely interesting. I was registered as an unaccompanied diplomat at FTR. We have worked a few times with innovation, adn with UN programs and funds, we weanted to get out of our comfort zone, for the partners out there. Iv'e always considered aid as risk-winning capital. It isn't that we don't want to measure, but it is risk-leaning. WE ahve to do it when it comes to find ways to more effectively reach out to the young. WE agreed that we'd increase our contribution. WE agreed to contribute to the fund. We are very happy to see the results. When it comes to financing, the post 2015 agenda, we'll discuss our next steps. Getting private capital involved. The folks who can solve the problems of the world can also make the money. It is a win-win. We heard about a micro-venture program in Jordan, where $5K investment. Risk-winning capital. WE need to look into the financing part.


Tony
    Im thinkig bout where were we a few years ago. If we all take the energy you have in this room, and take it think of where we're going in a few years from now. Thank you all.


All of us can relate that our parents have warned us about beware the company you keep. WE're privileged to keep company like his, willing to take reisks, provide flexible financing, thought leadership, labs, all towards wone aim: to take something from startup to scale-up, to benefit children. None of this cool stuff out there, would be possible without people like this walkign the journey with us. It isn't only the financing bu the passiona nd advocacy. You'll leave here hopefully an advocate of the work the partners are doing around innovation. WE'd like to invite each of our core partners to sign a block. Each of these blocks represent the pieces of the contributions. Each oragnizagion makes. The structure is not done or finsihed, and we hope others will come on board. A year from now, if we had to go through this again, to tell you how many more people are involved, we can talk about how we went from a startup to today. It will be even more scaled up and more partners here. WE're going to take a number of photos, and then we invite you to get hands-on with the projects, and join us for a reception.





    

