Public Safety

Officer Griffin
    quick things:

    Chaperones, raise your hands. If you get lost, these people can help
    direct you. Every 2-300 feet, there is a blue light, you can push that to
    get to 911.

    Everyone here has nice tech. There are 20-30K people on campus, not
    everyone has great intentions. Don't leave it on a park bench.

    IF there is a fire, don't be hero and try to fight it (I had that happen
    once)

Kaitlin Keenan

    WiChacks committee lead


    Has everyone here joined our slack team? If you haven't gotten an invite,
    we'll add you. This will be our primary comms channel.

    There is a photos channel there too, so feel free to post there. Post to
    our insta/twitter/etc. We also have a snapchat filter! 

    Use our hashtag #wichacks17!

    It's going to be a really fun weekend! 

    If you don't have teams, there is a team formation channel. At the end of
    the kickoff, we'll head back to atrium to help with formation. That is all
    I have, so now, Swift from MLH.

Swift
    I'm from MLH. 
    First hackathon, raise hands?

    WOW!

    You're going to have a great time. My first one, I was studying to be a
    lawyer. My first hackathon, I didn't even finish what I did, but I had a
    great time!

    This URL. bit.ly/mlh_loves_hackers there is a lot of goodies here.

    If you forget, you can always come find me.

    I'm CEO/Co-founder of MLH.

    What is it?

    We're the worlds first official Hackathon League. We help students learn
    to be amazing engineers, designers, makers. 50K students like you join
    those events. By being here, you earn points for your school. Bring your
    friends to more, and the winners on the season get crazy hardware, like
    laptops from Dell/M$.

    Sometimes it's a good idea to take breaks. There'll be a fun game later
    tonight, at 6pm, to do cupstacking.

    We have a hardware lab, so that you can have access to latest/greatest
    tech. There are laptops/computers, but also Alexa, Pebble, Leap Motion,
    Oculus, Muse. Check https://hardware.mlh.io

    We have $100 in AWS creds. This should be in your email, but if not, you
    can grab a card at the table.

    You got free domains (.com, .net, .org)

    The GitHub education pack includes a bunch of goodies for students.

    We're doing a drawing contest.

    We're partnered with #hackharrassement. If you take the pledge, come see
    me at the table and you get a super secret bit of swag.

    Top teams go home with medals. Domain.com swagbag for tagging your URL.
    Best AWS gets $30 amazon.

    We have free Soylent! If you win the drawing contest, you can get a free
    months supply.

    Anyone who demo'd, gets an "I demo'd" sticker.

    And Tshirts! If you go to cupstacking, you'll get one of the tshirts.


    We believe at MLH should be safe and inclusive.
    Harassment and abuse are never tolerated. Come find me or an organizer if
    you ever feel comfortable. Code of conduct: mlh.io/code-of-conduct


    Thank you partners:

    I'm Swift. Huge round of applause for all the people who made this event
    possible!

Keynote Speaker Bobbilee Hartman, SE at Iona Health.


BH
    Hello! Everyone please get up from your seats
    <audible groans> LOL

    For those of you who are new, this is the beginning of a journey. You are
    part of a community of women in tech. We're going to have you put arms to
    the right, and to the left.

    <laughter>

    Get closer.

    Bobbilee and I wanted to congratulate you for making the trek. Some of you
    took planes, driven a while, and we want you to feel supported.

    Yeah, this is a comp, but we want you to know you have a network. Whether
    it is Intuit or other companies, we're here to coach and help you.

    You Got it!

    Thank you Kaitie, and George, and all the volunteers.

    <applause>

    Let's get started.

    <sitting>

Aliza Carpio, Tech Evangelist at Intuit. If you wanna know what that is, you
can come find us at our booth.

When Lana V. asked me, who could be a keynote, there was only one person I
thought About. I love her passion for the craft, and teaching young, or not so
young people, to help them invest in theirselves. She came from Minnesota, and
your weather is actually better right now Rochester.


AG
    You see her up here on the screen in this picture. Tell us a bit about
    yourself.

BL
    That pic was actually taken in NYC--same state! Orig from Minneapolis. I
    went to brooks institute for photographer.  Decided to go back to regular
    biz degree in marketing at U of AZ. Then I went to the midwest, to do
    mobile app design work. We outsourced to a closeby devshop, and I worked
    with them from early on. I only knew Photoshop. They seemed like supermen!
    They were so powerful doing all the things! I started going to meetups and
    conferences with them, and there was a talk there "Everyone can learn to
    code."

    "Finally, some drop and drag thing they've been hiding from me!"

    But Actually, it was a bootcamp school, to do a 4 month program to learn
    one language.

    I left my job, went to Chicago, a BIG change.

    Everyone was like "take the front-end course" but I took the whole thing.

    I got my first junior position in Minneapolis, at Intuit, then Iona. They
    are based outta Boston, with an engineering office there.

AG
    You talked a bit about creating--and when we talk about opportunity
    creation--it is about networks. How are they key?

BL
    When I first got started, I went to Meetups and hackathons early on. Many
    people at school said "it will overwhelm you" There are people who are
    wayyy higher level. It didn't cross my mind I wasn't good enough yet. I
    know I would learn something. By doing that, and going to conferences, I
    stayed in touch with all those people

    I don't go to VCS all the time, but I stay in touch via twitter. I've
    helped to run retreats to run too, but I've always used the network.

    I search for the companies that do the things I want, then find someone
    who works there.

AG
    If You are an introvert, what is your advice for growing your network.

BL
    I'm an extrovert, but have intra parts. I went to Meetups, and I went with
    friends, sometimes alone, but mostly with friends. There are some events
    you can go to with people. I used to think you needed to go to lots to be
    known, but you can go to random ones once in a while. I learned lots from
    non-tech Meetups, even how to build software better.

    You don't need to go to everything, just go to a couple. Even if you feel
    like you're being awkward in the corner observing, that's fine! Don't be
    intimidated.

AG
    You're at a hackathon. What advice do you have -- new or returning?

BL
    Don't be overwhelmed.
    You'll probably redo this code. Don't strive for perfection.
    Take things once at a time. Make progress.
    You can pivot at any time
    It doesn't need to be perfect.
    If there are people around you, don't compare yourself, keep moving
    forward.
    I used to compare myself, but even if someone is ahead of you, they are
    not necessarily smarter than you, they may just be ahead of you. Maybe the
    read a book? Maybe the got some extra experience? Keep focusing on you.
    You'll get there.

AG
    if you look back to that first time you went to a hackathon, what would
    you tell yourself?

BL
    def the comparison thing, but I'd try to reach out to people working on
    different things. The workshops are going to be really cool. Don't get
    super overwhelmed. I've done startupweekend, where this is lots more going
    on even, but get rest, and work on things that you are passionate about
    that are interesting to you. That motivates you best.

AG
    Thanks BL. It's great to hang out with you as a keynote. This wraps up our
    portion.

    I want to echo:
        Your job today, is that.
        You are here to express your idea.
        Get that thing out
        you'll have multiple challenges to tackle.
        It's about expressing your ideas through code.
        Leverage the help out there.
        I wish you luck!

        Thank you for being here.


BL
    any questions you have, come up and talk

    @bobbilee19

Kaitlin Keenan
    at this time, we're going to head back to the atrium, look for volunteers,
    and guide everyone back.


wic.hacks.rit@gmail.com
