Tania Katan
Axosoft Evangelist

@taniakatan
taniak@axosoft.com


*Eye of the Tiger Plays*
*audience claps along*




"It's the eye of the tiger, its the thrill of the fight"
The Eyyyyyyeeeeeeeee, of the Tiiiiigeerrrrr


Thank you for coming

I would like to introduce our MC!

Hi Everyone. My name is Suma. Welcome to 2016 witny conference.


Reading dedication:
    "We dedicate today to warriors goddesses trailblazers,..."


You guys are warriors.

How many are techies?
    20%-ish

Entrepreneurs?
    5ish%

Students
    10%

Nye'rs?
    15%

Men?
    10ish total :P

Take a minute to see photographer for free headshots, sponsored by CaptalOne.
It could be your new profile pic.

Lets' start with an amazing individual, who I just met. She is the creator of
the "it was never a dress" campaign. Coming all the way from Phoenix, AZ!

Tania Katan

    Hello

    Welcome to Women in Theatre 2016?
    How man thespians?


    All of my theatre training, allowed me to take the leap of faith into the
    Unknown world of tech. The first thing you learn in Theatre school, teach
    suspension of belief.

    Sam Taylor Coleridge.
        We take a leap of faith into an unknown world.

    I got a phonecall from a company, Axosoft. I knew they were cool, cause I
    gave a talk on creativity in their office. They're people asked questions
    after, and they had beanbags, and unlimited snacks!

    CEO called and said "I wanna talk to you about software, come in."

    I knew *nothing* about tech. I had a flip-phone and a dream.

    Ladan Shoji(sp) was a petite direct firecracker of a human.
    "We're not offering you a job, but we'd love to hire an evangelist."
    "yeah, that will really freak out my Jewish mom!"

    I didn't know what it meant. I thought that was someone who was on TV
    healing people.

    "what is this cool tool?"

    Agile project management software for developers, SaaS, B2B.

    It was like a time-warp. I don't understand you... help me!

    Good thing I understood B2B, you know, turning your bedroom into a hotel.
    Good thing I knew that one.

    This was the time a voice over would come in "in a world where a lesbian
    enters into the tech world. Something was a bout to happen. In her open
    workspace, at her standing desk... 3 months later."

    I didn't know. They took a risk on a rule-breaker. I was willing to take
    the leap. I started to learn about agile methodology, and it saved my
    life. The software we make, and the culture we make, uses agile as a
    foundation. The soup of software, people, ideas, is about collaboration
    and flexibility.

    That is a "performa-play" 1st, 2nd, 3rd drafts, iteration! I started to
    connect theatre and tech! I was ready.

    Then we got another call "we're hosting a big conference, and we need a
    big creative idea."

    So Sara and I brainstormed... and came up with nothing. So I took a walk,
    which part of my creative process. I Started thinking about women in tech,
    and in all spaces. Women are not celebrated for what they are. What if we
    took principles from theatre, and weave them into tech? 
    
    Suspend disbelief, into a world where women made up 50% of C level
    positions, and were paid as much as men. Or a 12 year old girl takes
    coding classes, because she sees herself in the teacher, or the girls
    sitting next to her.

    On that walk, I saw a symbol in my minds eye. The symbol, I brought back
    to Sara. She said "awesome". I think she's wearing a cape.

    I quickly printed out the symbol for women's bathrooms, and she was right
    there. It's like she was there the whole time.

    And then Sara was like "it was never a dress!"

    And we launched it.

    This conference was coming up quickly We made stickers, and went quick. I
    gave a quick chitty-chat, and before that, wrote some copy for the
    website.

    "Share your stories. Here are the ROI's of human connection."

    The people at the conf freaked out. We couldn't give them out fast enough.
    One person took a photo, and commented "cannot unsee this" and posted the
    pic to Twitter...

    CNN, New York Times, The India Times, The Huffington Post, major media
    outlets everywhere in the world picked up the story. We had over 18M
    organic impressions in the first day, and it only went up from there.

    From the responsibility we felt, we started a scholarship, going into
    STEAM fields. We put the A in stem, for the arts. We could have put the A
    in there for Aristotle, who said "when your talents and the needs of
    the world cross, therein lies your vocation." They could have predicted my
    being here today.

    I'm pretty sure the world needs more women in tech.

    Do you agree?

    Who will be the next Ada Lovelace?
    Who will be the next tech Rosa Parks?
    Who will use their talents to make a difference?


    When I say "Make A"
    You say "Difference!"

    Make A! Difference!
    Make A! Difference!

    when I say "When?"
    You say "NOW!"

    When? NOW!
    When? NOW!
    When? NOW!

    When I say "Thank you" You say "You're welcome"

    "Thank you" 
    "You're welcome"

    I hope you are open, and not resistant, but like the resistance.

    Thank you Amy and Cornell for schlepping me out here, and be sure to take
    some stickers.


Thank you Tania!

Next on schedule, we had a documentary, but that has been moved to later.

We're going to do our next panel, led by Tracy, who has a personal interest in
clearing roadblocks. Welcome Tracy.


Tracy
    Good morning
    I am incredibly inspired, and grateful for folks across the country to be
    here.

    What a difference one act can make!

    I just met Tania today, and I am amazed.

    It is great to be here, and we're so appreciative you came here.

    I'm not only inspired by Tania, but by all of you here.

    The world is big. Of all the places you could be, and the people you could
    be with, you are here. A big planet, but we're here for a big reason.

    My experience, as women, we don't celebrate enough. I ran into a young
    woman who works with Sobe(sp), bicycles. They just came back from Portland,
    landed a big contract for smart bikes, and a sponsorship by Nike.

    Georgia Crocker, we are celebrating you today@

    There is a ton that we can cover, and there are 35 precious minutes. We
    want to create a space for a beginning conversation.

    When I was thinking about this panel, I was putting together a picture
    puzzle, you know, the ones that come in a box?

    What a beautiful metaphor. I could see the picture on the cover of the
    box, and I knew what should be happening, and I was frustrated in the time
    it was taking to put it together. Nothing seemed to fit. You ever felt
    like that?

    We all have.

    Have you ever felt like that?

    Look around.

    In your life, when you encounter a roadblock: Fitting is different than
    belonging. Fitting is different than belonging. You can feel as if you
    don't fit, and still know you belong. You can do both at the same time.
    The universe is a big place. If you remember nothing else, remember that.

    All the pieces are on table, and they all belong, but they all don't fit
    with all the other pieces, until they are turned, matched, and connected.

    Isn't that an amazing metaphor?

    Yeah, but life isn't a picture puzzle! True. But there is always a right
    answer for you in a situation. Tomorrow there will be another challenge,
    and another answer.

    The key is to respond from a place of choice, rather than react from a
    place of emotion

    I'm going to invite my panelists up.

    *applause*

    We're going to run through a few scenarios, and have a conversation. To
    see others, make an assessment. After which, we have an amazing exercise,
    facilitated. We're going to create a space for quiet journaling, and then
    moving across the hall to meet with grey-shirted folks to continue.


Bottom-lining
    My name is Julia, I run a Accelerator in Ebay. I was born in Russia. When I
    was 19, I became a manager for the first time. I was in a room with men,
    who said "so gentleman, what are we discussing today?"

    I had an amazing mentor, first woman (CEO?)... at the organization(need
    info)

    When I said "it's impossible" she would say "what if it wasn't? What is
    the first step you would take?"

    Dan
        here because I'm a feminist.

    Lin
        Accenture. I have been in the biz community long time. When I first
        started, the most senior woman was 12 months ahead of me. I knew
        something wasn't right. I have had a passion since, and it is so
        exciting to be here today.

    Alecia
        I'm with Bloomberg. First time on a panel. I remember being in your
        shoes. It is about wisdom of the crowd, so you can be less shocked if
        something happens to you, or say "hey I'm not alone." here is an
        experience I can use to help guide me through my own. That is what
        I've found helpful in my career, and that is what I'm looking to give
        back.

    Sumia
        On Deck. I'm excited to learn from everywhere here. This may sound
        idealistic, but I believe everyone should be given equal opportunity
        to pursue interests and things they are good at. I think forums like
        this support that ideal.

    Moran
        I came because I had formative experiences in tech. I'm here for my
        twin sister. Grew up in a double-standard world, and I'm passionate
        about empowering women.

    Tracy
        Did you see that passion?
        You can only recognize the things you have in yourself!

        We have 25 mins. Who wants to start with a scenario?

    Dan
        I've heard her story, it is way better than mine.
        I was working on a client site, in a one-day workshop, and a
        trapezoidal table, so cool. The guy leading it, was acting very
        insensitive towards a woman working with me. He was ignoring,
        redirecting answers toward male counterparts. It was clearly
        noticeable. I'm her manager, trying to set her up for success, trying
        to decide do I intervene now, wait til later, or let her be in charge
        of managing the challenging situation.

        In this case, I decided to wait through the day. We made it, but a few
        days later, we had a 1x1, and I said "I noticed this situation, it
        made me uncomfortable, did it make you? She said yes, but she was a
        pro." I asked if I could talk to his manager, she said ok. I did that.
        His manager was surprised, he acted as if he wasn't aware of this
        behavior, thanked me for reporting it.

        She continued, but the guy was moved off of the project, probably for
        other things, but maybe some of this. A while later, she earned so
        much respect, they wanted her to join form consulting to their
        company.

        I was excited, because she didn't hold the whole company accountable
        for one person's behavior, and she moved forward.

    Lin
        he consulted her. I like that. Consult with her, see what she was
        comfortable with, and approached that way.

    Dan
        Thanks

    Tracy
        I'm OK with silence, we can wait for wisdom.

    Lin
        I had a thing happen a few years ago. It points to the fact that there
        is a lot of unconscious bias. Our NA leadership team , was meeting for
        a 2 day planning session for the year ahead. 2 days. 10 people. 8
        guys, 2 women. At the end of the first day, there was no dinner plans
        made. We all scattered to the hotel, to do email.

        One guy had taken it upon himself to get the guys together, but he
        didn't include 3 of the people, the 2 women, and the one gay guy.

        One of the 7 guys didn't realize the others weren't invited, and we
        got messages about "see you at dinner"

        One mentioned to me, then the other woman, and realized what was going
        on. We had been excluded.

        He unintentionally excluded the 3 of us.

        We've now been invited, sort of... do we make a stance. Do we go. Do
        we not go?

        We went. It was better to be in the tent, than not in the tent.
        Everyone was wondering when the steam was going to blow.

        The mistake wasn't intentional.

        He confessed for everything he had ever done in his life practically
        in the middle of the night, via dissertation.

        Had we not gone, there never would have been a conversation. The Group
        wouldn't have learned.

        The take-away is "sometimes it isn't intentional." Going through that
        together is a growth opportunity.

    Dan
        what stood out to me, there was a fork int he road, to decide to
        confront, or go about it peacefully with pride. This will happen a lot
        in your careers. Do I want to be passive aggressive, or give the
        benefit of the doubt? In my experience, the latter has always come
        with better outcomes.

    Julia
        we often assume things. We are faced with challenges at work, and
        assume a person did something out of their biases. Sometimes it is
        unintentional. Asking that person up front removes that assumption
        that leads to mistakes.

        I wish I hadn't done that in my early career.

        Jumping into a small story.

        20 years old. First time manager. Went to marketing director
        meetings. Old men, with company 20-30 years. I didn't know better, so
        I started acting like them. I started acting/mimicking what they were
        doing. I decided to wear--I was ashamed that I was young, and a woman.
        I cut my hair, and wore glasses. I made a big mistake, and stopped
        being myself. In that scenario, it doesn't matter if you confront the
        person directly, or if you do it later, or not at all, you must keep
        your integrity and know who you are. If you are going to wake up as a
        better person, then you can do that.

    sfds
        after this happened, I liked that you were not holding a negative
        opinion of the people involved. You didn't treat them differently
        after (to Lin)

    Lin
        Yeah, there is much to be said about intent. If it is uneducated, or
        unaware. I was not working directly at that time with that person, but
        later we did work together closely in the future. HE got a lot of
        growth, I got a lot of growth, and that was a formative moment.

    sdfs
        I was having a related conversation with a feminist at work.
        Sometimes, guys will meet up after work, and grab drinks, and not
        include women, sometimes unintentional. I'm this 40 year old guy,
        should I invite this 20 year old girl out for a drink? How will it be
        perceived? That was an interesting conversation I've had.

    Tracy
        Yeah. This can be simple or complicated. It isn't about being perfect.
        I would like to gift you with permission, not that you need it ,but it
        was helpful to me: I give you permission to do nothing! It is your
        story to write. The ready and willing and able--you may have one or
        more of those, or none! The opportunity will come back around

        Is this resonating with you?

    Sabin
        I worked at a company that grew headcount 3x. There was a situation
        where services and sales team merged. Our services team had to train
        sale, and it was uncomfortable. They were doing something they didn't
        want to do. Myself, as a trainer, had to tell them when they weren't
        receptive. The gut said "be reactive" but I took a step back, and
        instead, thought about making this a collaborative exercise. When it
        was 2 way, and when it wasn't just about performance on the product,
        but about me being fair, coming form a place of humility. To echo
        Tracy's words, it was coming form a place of choice, not emotion.

        Separating yourself from the heat of the moment will happen time and
        again in your career.

    Bloomberg   
        the company was growing quickly. We were 2 weeks form launching an
        initiative, and in a planning session, got pushback from tech
        leadership, about our solution. This was at a time when the growth was
        doubling tech team. Our tech lead was on vacation at the time, so if I
        didn't want delays, I had to explain the architecture myself. He would
        have been better to do that. There was frustration with stakeholders,
        who felt like they communicated everything correctly, but because of
        changes at the company, some people didn't really understand what we
        were doing or how we were doing it.

        At that time, being the product manager, I wanted it to get done on
        time, and kind of stepping away form the mention was important. I was
        able to work with my manager to come up with a timeline.

        These are the risks, what are we doing to mitigate? What are
        opportunity costs of waiting?

        After a few days, we got everyone on the same page, and launched on
        time.

        1) These situations can be rewarding. I was able to lead the
        discussions.
        2) Be aware of the changing landscape, esp in a growing company, and
        communicating the right things to the new people

    #3
        Feedback from someone who isn't positive, to not be too self critical.
        The most important people you meet in your career, may say those
        things. Don't beat yourself up. Seek that feedback. It may not feed
        your ego. I was self-critical at first, but most people will not give
        you anything, so seek people who are going to help you grow.

    Julia
        It's like going to the gym. If your abs are not good enough, do you
        not work on your abs? no! It's like that in the workplace.

        *laughs*

    #3
        Id didn't know I could do this, and someone pushed and challenged me.
        Doing it for your own pleasure works too.

    Julia
        Heavy one.
        I stared 3 startups. I'm an entrepreneur. After 3 years, my co-founder
        stole all the money, and sent an email to me saying "I always knew a
        woman's place was in the kitchen. Here you go."

        I was depressed, everything fell apart. It was my identity.
        Entrepreneurs give up their lives and identity in the business.

        I didn't confront him. I kept the investors. I looked hard for a biz
        parter who has the same values as me. Got over blaming myself. We
        started consulting companies on how to have the right culture, around
        software engineers, and became a life-coach to women who lose their
        startups.

        The Learning for me, was that even the hardest situation, when every
        value of yours is being shattered to pieces, that is when you grow.
        You have to have a support system.

    Tracy
        A lot to unpack here, which we can do all day.
        Our intent was to start your wheels turning.

        Please help me thanking the panel.

        In 9 minutes, we're going to invite you to get into groups, and meet
        with the grey-shirted people, and then walk through the workshop.

        Please thank panelists.

        We're going to give you some quiet time.


        Page 18 and 19, there are 2 worksheets.
        If you have a scenario in your head, or in your life, that would be
        helpful to talk and work through, this map can be very helpful.

        Draw a line between what you want, and what action.

        If you have situation, what was the impact on you?

        Is there something you feel like you need to know about this scenario?
        Here is the situation, here is the impact on me, is there anything I
        need to check out?

        Accurate assessment?
            Let me step back. IS that really happening?
            I'm at a conference, and it feels like I'm the only one not
            invited.
            The impact on me is "no one likes me"
            Is it true? For me, yes.
            But is there something else?
            What is the next step?
                I want to be invited about to dinner.
            Proposed best action
                talk to Sam in the office about this, find out if there is
                anything I need to go.
            condition of satisfaction
                I want to go to dinner next time.

            If it is a scenario that already happened, you can list what you
            know now that you didn't know before.

    There is no right answer. This is a challenge by choice.


-----------

-----------

Tracy
    Welcome back. If you could grab your seat.
    More feedback, you whistled, and you promised more chime?

    It it missing!
    If one of you come across it, please bring it back.


Mentoring Panel

    I'm excited about this panel too. I'm particularly excited cause we're here
    with women with bright careers ahead of them. Women are a resource at
    Accenture. It is a neat space, you all know that, because you are here.

    Before we start with the knowledge bombs

    Stacy Jones, Director of Corp Marketing, Accenture.

    How many have a mentor?
        10%-ish
    satisfied
        less hands

    go back to oyur desk, and think about what these women have to tell you.
    WE have mentor/mentee pairs, and community builders.
    mentoring doens't have to be 1to1 releathionship. I've had many men and
    women who have helped me in my career.

    Our first pair, introduce yorselfs, and tell us your story.

    My name is Joshi Liu, data scientist at capital one. Hired straight out of
    college, into a dcollege deve program. i was given a oportuinty to get a
    mentor. My caompany was going through an indentify crisis of what a data
    scientist was. It is a new job, and upcoming. I was usually they have
    pairs int he same job. i kenw all the data scientists in the company, and
    I'm open to anyone. So I paired iwht monica.

    Monica Neff
        manage emertirpise dev programs
        new to the world of technology.

        I was approached to manage a new training program, and to work closely
        with data scientists to do data grainign.
        i was appraoche, wsomoen in ny, well connected in datascience, but
        mayu need other advice,a nd benefit from other info.

        I say yes a lot, and this was an easy yes for me.

        I have been paired up with Jochi, and she was awesome. I have learned
        as much from her as she has from me along the way.

    Mod
        was this common? A formal mentorship?

        Jochi
            a little of both! It was diff than other development programs

    mod
        with the idea of value in mind, you structured something important.
        Who determins the scheudle? What are some tips that listeners can take
        away.

    jochi
        it is pretty casual. we  work in diff offices, but both in NY. We
        don'thave a set structure, we just sort of organically have it hldappen.



    I wanna make big change, and have people to help me. Harvard had no
    student union for African Americans in the school of design. If was to say
    quickly, I woudl say that it is someone that wants to make a big change,
    but konws they cannot do it themselves.

    Mod
        there is another ocmmunity connection, in our committement, we formed
        a community with Girls Who Code. It comes back to the theme of working
        together.

    emily reed
        dir of ED at girls who code. Before that, i worked as an engineer,
        training in CS.

        There are these small moments. When you think about mentoring, hyou
        think of something big and intimidating. The story I'll tell often, to
        our girls who code, is sometimes you'll have another small moment, a
        negative moment, that is scary for you. I had never taken CS before
        college. When I walked into Intro to CS, I wa styring it out, I was
        curious. I thought i ouwld like it, but ididn't know what it was.

        I was paired with Gerald, who was very upset to be paried with me. He
        had been hacking at home for a long time, and he knew alot, and wnated
        everyone to know he knew alot. "I thought they were going to pair us
        upw tih people of similar abilities?"

        I felt "maybe this isn't for me." but there was something that grabbed
        me about it. I finished the course, and I did better than gerald in
        the course.

        When i found out later I was experiencing was impostor syndrome. I
        found a mentor at my EDU, who helped me in those small moments.

        I had exhausted moments int he lab when i thought I couldn't do it.
        She didn't realize at the time that telling me I could do it was, but
        it had a huge impact on me. If she wasn't there for me then, i
        woudlnt' be here talking abou this now.

        and now, my passion is closing the gender gap in tech. At girls who
        code, we get girls who commit in middle/high school, who are just
        learing and passionate. They'll run into roadblocks. It can feel a
        little strange, but if you can be there when they are freaking out
        about their next algorithms assignment, or dealing with a bully in
        class, or taking a risk and need a push, that is how I try to pay it
        back.

    Mod
        little does Gerald know, he is inspiring even more women today!

        We did some reaserach for int'l women's day, which we love. Mentoring
        came up in the top 3! It is not a soft thing. The other thing, it is
        the power of storytelling. it isnt' just 'put in 6 more hours'

        the lasting impression, the teachable moments. The storytelling, you
        or your mentor, tha is a huge value.

        we're oging to go back to the woman who said this is her passion.

    Suma
        I'm an entriprenuer who jumped into tech a few years ago. I had
        immense impostor syndrome. Microfinance, peace-corps background. For
        me, I was liek "java is an island" nad "ptyon is a large snake."

        I did out in tech, and lesbians in tech. Joined FLatiron school to
        learn iOS development. WHat I found was that the importance of
        community is to be come the most supportive champions. YO maight find
        a mentor, a colleague. I found the community saved me.

        My co-founder passed away a few monthgs. Hacker-actor elite-js camp in
        SF. The community came together for almost 7 days a wweek, working on
        the code. They helped me because they knew I need help, and peopel
        around me.

        that is an extreme example, but the community will be your champions
        and support.

    mod
        thank you for sharing that.

        going back to capone mentoring pair. we all want to understand the
        mentoring relationships. Help us undrestand, what is the most
        challengeing issue you have helped eachother work thorugh? What kinds
        of stuff can I work through?

    Jochi
        going back, I brought up the idea of "no one is sure what a
        datascientist is" and it is up to the scientsits to dfine it. That has
        been a great challenge. I'm a computer scientist by training, I wanna
        work on unsolved problems, and build random things for the sake of
        building them. It has been helpful to just be able to talk to someone
        about how i want to idnetify myself, and articulating that myself,
        that helps me come to ht realization.

    mod
        did you come up with a quick definition? is taht what you worked on?
    jochi
        Wihtin software engineering, there are people who lean towards
        statistics, or business, but I dinetify more twoards building a data
        product, and comign up with ideas bout what to do with data to create
        a viable product.

    mod

        understanding that, has that helped you? What was the benefit?

    jochi
        direct, being able to articulate to my program lead, helped me
        identify projects, and which skillsets I want to develop further.
        Konwing that is super important in allocation of reosurces, and what
        products we pursue and launch.

    jochi mentor
        it is new aat capital one. She is invlved in the community, which
        helps to engage more fpopel intenrally too.

        there is big value to defining some boundaries, or saying "ther eare
        no boundaries, it will just be the two of us."

        konwing how you approach, help you leverage and coach in whatever role
        you are in in a much better way.

        What do you want to get out of the relatinshiop, and if it isn't
        valuable, you can end it! You're investing time, and if it isn't
        valuable, you can stop, and go back to being co-workers and friends. 
        
        You open the door

    mod
        Candor. HOlding back is not helpful, and helping with boundaries.

        I'm hearing the mentor-mentee tie-up doesn't have to last forever. It
        can change.

        back to cmmunity builders, ti takes time. It isn't autopilot. with
        that in mind, we've got peopel wtih really big jobs. You're CEO and
        Founder of a company. HOW do you balance that? Keeping community and
        the job, and yourself going?

    Jean
        How do I balance it all? I was half joking about the assumptions :P
        WE've got series A funding, and 30 employees, mostly tech hires. ONe
        of things you realize when you have sale/creative/tech teams, each one
        takes a balance. How you motivate a tech team, or a mktg team, to ge
        tthem to work toegehter. The same ideas for mentorship are paplicable
        to any group. Being as candid as possible, saying "great, go talk to
        that person directly."

        people think I have the answers all the time, and mostly  I don't. You
        need to figure it out. Community building is creating a space for
        peopel to figure it out for themselves.

        finding the balance in my job, is really, holding the space. My job is
        to hold the space, to problem solve, and bring their very best.
        Weather student groups, work, or bookclub. Let peopel do their best.

        You can't do your best, particulary in a tech startup, if you cannot
        be candid and open. that can be "i don't udnerstand" or "i need hlep
        defining my role."

        I have learend to be very canddi about saying wha you don't know. my
        main mentor really inspired that in me. She is constantly a
        reality-check on me with "do you really understand what you re
        doing???"

        balance in candor, and to be super candid, if ther are people looking
        ot join a startup, it is mainly why I am here. I hope I'm dropping a
        knowlege bomb.

        we are hiring for tech/front-end back end. It is not hard.
        Jean@sweeten.com. Women in tech is a lonely place. The best thing I
        can think to offer you is a job.

    mod

        i can hear opportunies there. as one of 130K women in tech at
        Accenture, we're all helping to do that today.

        Speed round: What is the best advice you've ever gotten from a mentor?
        simple or story.

    Suma
        Be present. i think a lot of times we're obsessed with outcomes, and
        you can't control that. Have fun in what you are doing, and learn, and
        you don't know what is going to happen 6 monthsf rom now. Make the
        most of now.

    Jochi
        my mentor in college was  a pro-violinist, and decided CS/Security was
        her passion. She taught me it was ok to change your mind later on, and
        that you can do something different in your 30's. That was inspiring
        and valuable.

    Jochi mentor
        Ask for what you want. I was debating quitting my job, or taking a
        left turn in my career in capital one. He said "go home, think about
        what you want, and ask for it." that has changed the way I interact
        with pretty much everywone in my life. There is a possiblity that
        peopel will say "double salary, or moving to hawaii, is not possible"
        but getting something from that. YOu an find power and peace in just
        sahying it.

    mod
        think about it, ruminate, that resonates with me. Did you, in your
        process, did you talk with friends/family, or did you sit in th
        corner?
    jochimentor

        my process is both. I will think first, and then try to articulate. i
        start with my dad, usually, and then go to my peers, and people with
        more experienc than me, and then someone outside of me, even as far as
        the opposite of me. If it is a big ask, I ask widely, small asks,
        maybe one person.

    Jean
        Just don't quit. That doesn't mean don't quit if you are unhappy, but
        don't quit tyring to be unfulfilled. The definition of porn by supreme
        court "you konw it when you see it" you'll know whn you're happy.

    Emily
        You don't have to go it alone. I used to be the person who though I
        owuld have to deal with everything myself. I'm an outgoing introvert.
        When something is difficult, i can turn inward, but you can turn too
        far intward. Girls who code has grown a lot, and it took a long time,
        and they hvae a community. A girl posted she was being bullied, and
        before the full-time staff could respond, the community reallied and
        gvae her encouragement. IT made me tear up, I didn't always have that.

        one is to be empathetic, related to gerald (that wasn't his name)
        we were talking about anger, and I was angry at that gerald situation.
        But he was going through his own thing too, he had amazing konwlege,
        and went through school with no one knowing what he was talking about,
        and then got over enthused in college when someone saw that in him.

        It is important in mentoring releatiohsoisp too.

    mod
        
        magnificent advice. My own journey--which I'm still on--theme that
        connects nicely. In many situations, it is not all about you. Other
        peopel's reactions, we personalize them. There may be some element of
        self-examination, but stepping back, and focusing on what you bring to
        hte table, and that youa re here and you are engaged. Keep reminding
        oyrueslf how amazing that is, and don't let anyone have the power to
        make you forget that.

        we have a little time on the clock, and I would love to take some
        time to take some questions.

    Q: how do you have a male mentor, and have them see your problems as a
    woman in tech?
    A: Emily. Because we're still tyring to solve this problem, this a common
    thing. you are likely to get a male mentor. I"ve had multiple kinds of
    mentor, who do diff aspects. One om y undergrads, was a gay male cs prof.
    He idnetified and felt like he wasn't pat of the community either. We had
    things to talk about that. I've had straight white males, but they have
    been feminists. you have to seek them out, and we can learn alot.

    Jean
        you can have many mentors. Maybe you don't go to him with that issue.
        There are lots of peopel. GO to th eperson you think can help you with
        each issue.

    Q:  YOu guys gave some your best advice. Some of the hardest advice you've
    given or received?
    A:  Jean
        what popped into my head, I went ot a small biz thing, looking for a
        mentor, and heard "honey, you are pretty, why don't you just marry
        well?" That is not the worst advice I've hard, but ughhhhhh...

        I know that isn't what you meant though.

        I manage a lot of people, and I hired a lot of my firneds. That can be
        really hard. I literally love everyone who works for me. I konw that
        is the most biz thing to say, but I respect and love each person,a nd
        giving them feedback about their performance is hard. The empathy
        piece is huge.

        telling your friend they are not doing their job well is really hard
        advice to give.


