The pycon edu summit started 3 years ago, with Naomi Ceder as Chair. Saw
effective presentations about sharing python in university and the community.
She stepped down, and I volunteered, still not sure why though ;)

We have represetnation from all ov erht eworld, from Peru/UK, and elsewhere.

We used google moderator to choose the talks, we'll talk about that process
later and whether it is a good fit.

we'll take a break at 10:50pm, then more talks, then lunch. The room will then
be split into 2 portions.

WE'll have another break at 3pm, and then bring the rooms back together. At 2
diff times during the day, we'll have lightning talks.

Jess Nickel

Currently, Dr. Chuck is the chair of the projct managment committe for Sakai.
He teaches 2 moocs on coursera, computing hisotyr, and programming for
everybody. A longtime advocate of FOSS, he's placed all of his content on
pythonlearn.org. Please welcome, Dr. Charles Severance, or Dr. Chuck.

Dr. Chuck.
    I haven't been to a pycon in a while, as it is also the last week of
    classes at university... but, the invitation to come to this summit was
    too wonderful to resist.

    The title of my talk, "Programming for everybody" has been a theme of
    htise community for a long time. I have tatoo on both shoulders, left is
    about education, where I have Michigan state, and the right shoulder is
    about research, like the Sakai project. My CV is tatood on my shoulders.

    Let's hit a couple fo fun things. Python is a valuable skilsl these days.
    You can make a 6 figure income where python is used. THings like
    datamining, and others, are becoming exceedingly valuable. It is a
    first-class skill in NLP and datmining. The popularity of python is moving
    into colleges now, as it is more cpproachable, and an easier ramp to elarn
    CS.

    I come from U of Mich school of information. It's not a cs department, we
    are a former library school, but we built this new undergrad curriculum.
    We were the first schoolin the world to build a masters in information
    program. WE have many programming langauges, but also a storn glib arts
    tradition. Swift, obj-c, and others. Game theory, network anlaysis, and
    datamaing. Not just tech for tech sake, but to solve the problems of
    biz/socity. If you look at our admissions, it is diff than most program.
    Over 50% females apply and graduate, and this year, over 60%! We think
    python is a big part of that.

    I teach on coursera. There are a lot of rooms I wlak into that don't know,
    but that is not the case here. The #1 search term? PYTHON!

    The top 10 terms have something to do with programming. There is an
    interesting, if you look at the age, there are some in highschool, some in
    college, and a LOT after college. LEarning to progrma, and leanring to
    python, is something that people are interested in. There are 60 year olds
    taking my courses, even if they were a lawyer.

    My class was designed after I took the othe rRice University classes. They
    have a CS0 type of class, and a CS1-2. My class is like CS -1 :)

    I'm trying to get as many people as possible. I teach a class called
    interenet history, technology, and security. U of Mich was one of the 4
    founding organizations, and I had the 15th course.

    A year and a half ago, I started teaching python. My internet history
    starts at 56K, but then follows the same pattern. We're teaching 20K
    students at the end...


    My python 30, 56, 102, 159K... we are on pace to almost double. The next
    time I teach this class, it could be as high as 300K

    That will mean I have taught 3/4 of a milllion people... a few more
    semesters, and I will have taught a million.

    Ther is a lot of hype around MooCs. WE've generated about 350K, and some
    of that goes into my paycheck.
s 
    Python for Informatics. The revenue is going up, and it can almost pay for
    a plane ticket! The book is free, but you can buy a printed copy for 9.99.

    This is a specialization, something that coursera does. This had made
    $3.5M, becuase you can sell a certificate while offering a free course.

    I worked

    Khan academy has a relatively militant view of highschool education. They
    are about getting students excited, rather than beating them over the head
    with an AP textbook. They teach JS, not surprrisingly, but we've worked
    python into their class.

    This is a follow-on to my class, where I focus on Data analsyis, rather
    than CS.

    It is exciting to be part of the pyton, comunity.

    It is fun to read the articles. some say it is a "flash in the pan" and
    they are grumpy about the takeover of python.

    I'll call your attention to a proposal that Guido made to Darpa, about
    making investment in python as a teaching langauge in 1999. This has been
    part of our dna since the very beginning.

    I write a monthly column for IEEE magazine, and they give my travel budget
    to interview people. I went to dropbox, and met with Guido, and recorded a
    message for all beginning python students.

    My idea with this was, that I wanted to put it up on Youtube.


    The other thing that is baked into our community is Open Source. This
    story of the "think python" started before opencoursware at MIT, and
    before creative commons, this community was making intellectual property
    freely available for learning.

    Why did Alan and Jeff decide to give the books away? It was alreayd part
    of the culture here. the founding essance of pyton in education is "do
    somethig".

    All my python assignemtns are done by an auto-grader.

    Sugi.org based off of Sculpt, and in browser compilier that turns pythong
    into javascript.

    if you look at the other courses in coursera by Rice University, they too
    use sculpt. Open is about giving to the future.

    Khan Academy? Guess what tech is critical to adding python there? Sculpt!
    Free, Free, Free. Free paying it forward.

    I'm not trying to be the world's teacher. I see my course as a teacher
    training job. I want them to take my MooC, and then teach. I think that
    all highschools should be teaching python. every single part of my course,
    everything that I write is free and open.

    This may seem illogical, but it leads to things you cannot believe. I have
    htis prof in India, who takes my stuff, and ships on on DVD's to students.

    All we need to konw is that if you give, you are chanign the future.

    When you have 150K students, you can get things done. My slides ahve been
    translated into 150 langauges. If I was perrson, this would not happen. I
    have given, and they will give as well.

    The book has been translated into spanish, and korean. I was given by Alan
    permission to do what I wanted to do with the book. It was GFDL, I made it
    CC-BY-NC-SA, with an asterix. If you made a trnaslation, I would remove
    the NC, and let you make all the money off of it.

    Python says "I will give my stuff away" We all benefit when someone makes
    a translation.

    If the observed affect over the last 15 years is that python has emerged
    as the leading langauge to engage with a broard range of programmers, what
    is the cause?

    YOU!

    What other programming language has a group like this that is thinking
    about how to teach with it? M$ tries to bribe folks to do this sure, but
    do those other langauges have this? 15 years of passionate teachers, who
    are trying to advance?

Q:  What is the biggest challenge?
A:  I don't belive the teachers are the problem, but the curriculum. Khan
    Academy, with it's pirate flag, is going to be the solution. Some
    teachers, during afterschool classes, will create so much value, that'll
    backfill. I think it's going to take 15 years, and that it won't be next
    year.

    The federal gov in the UK is at least Saying the right things, maybe they
    are doing them too. The spreadsheet is not the solution to all the world's
    problems.

    Thank you.



As I've tried to teach people python, I've had to use IDLE, which I basically
swap out as soon as possible.

Bonjour! I'm Al. It is a great honor to be here talking about the future of
education. I'd like to begin by talking about php.

PHP has a reputation for not being so elegant, but it is easy to start with,
and easy to install. Getting to "hello world" only takes 3-4 steps. This is
why you can find php on so many webhosts.

PHP is really easy to get started with. Hello world is only 1 line long.

Python gets a lot of things right. It is easy to install, and easy to get
started with. It comes with IDLE, the graphical IDE. Smalltalk maybe came with
one, but no other languages seem to come with them.


I don't know many professional python programmers who use IDLE as their
primary IDE.


I've written a few books and put them online.

http://inventwithpython.com

I have a huge interest in getting people to code. It is like playing an
instrument, or konwing how to ask where the bathroom is in a forieigh
language; it makes you an intersteing person.

I have a personal obsession with the 1980 movie Robocop. Robocop is programmed
with 3 laws, in a very asimovian way. I thought this would be a good fit for
IDLE.

1) IDLE should be a teaching tool, not a dev tool
2) IDLE should come with python, and uses only stdlib.
3) IDLE should be fully functional offline, but have online features.


Features:
    Single window tabbed interface. 
        The IDLEX project already does that.
    Auto-save. 
        I teach at an afterschool program in Oakland, sometimes when people
        plug things in, it trips the breaker for the whole room.
    Foreign Language Support.
        we can't change the python language itself, but scratch has a dropdown
        for changing the language settings, built right into it.
    Plain-spoken error messages and web search
    Integrated Pastebin
    Integrated pip
    Python 2/3 check

And now for something completely different...

This is code academy. There are many sites like this, but they all basically
have a section to talk about the lesson, and a place to write your code, and
an output screen.

We could have IDLE implement it's own interative tutorials. It could come with
it's own IDE, but also a tutorial system, and everyone could add their own
lessons. You could maybe install through pip! NedBat has a project on github
called "Choosey" that allows you to do this with Django.

No other language does this, having a way to learn the language that comes
with the langauge itself. This woudl help to really grow the community.


http://InventWithPython.com
al@InventWithPython.com
@AlSweigart
