Biella:

I was floored for many reasons, that engineers and hackers had reinvented
the law...

    This was right about the time I got a fast internet connection. I ended up
    sick for about a year, home, but I was online. By the time I got over
    that, I knew so much about FOSS, and that it should be studied
    anthropologically. I won't talk much about the book, but there is a lot
    going on in there.


    Once I was in that world, I never left. In terms of anonymousymous, the way I
    got there was extremely different. During my research, I met many people
    who protested the church of Scientology. I ignored it, until I went to
    University of Alberta, with the largest archive of Scientology in North
    America. I felt like Xenu was sending me a message...


    Secret documents were being shared on Usenet, and I started to look at
    that project, but I was secretive. I was concerned the church would come
    after me like other journalists and authors, and I was guarded, until
    anonymouss rose up to troll the church. There was a famous Tom Cruise video,
    and the church threatened suit if the publishers didn't take it down. Then
    trolled the heck out of the church, and during that campaign, they made
    the shift to activism.

    That is all I'm going to say about the background.

Molly   
    Anyone heard of The Berkman center at Harvard Law? The reason I got into
    DDoS, I was working for John Zittrain when Operation payback went down.

    News orgs would call and say "Help! What is internet!?!?" What is anonymous,
    what is DDoS, what is Wikileaks, everything is on fire... Johnathon said
    "I'll handle Wikileaks, you handle the weird hacker stuff..." It didn't
    stop being interesting for me, it just kept on going. I'm interested in
    Online politics and dissent. I got to MIT, and said "I'm going to write
    my thesis on 5 things" and they were like "no, pick one" and I was like
    "Ok, then DDoS!"

    IN 2010, many people thought that this hadn't been done before, but
    cursory research showed it had. I'm interested in disruption in society
    that believes it is a discursive society. I think it is really important.

    I have much info about online security, and freedom and rights, and cyber
    war policy.


Kocsen
    Given your interest in DDos, what is your opinion of the recent GitHub
    DDoS?

Molly
    I'm reading a lot for my comprehensives right now, which means I can tell
    you a whole lot about theory, but couldn't tell you what happened in the
    news last week :P

    People often, one of the most knee-jerk responses on DDoS, is "this is
    censorship." I say, No, this is about power relationships. What is
    happening here, is censorship. The state coming in and putting a block.

Biella
    when activists target PayPal or Mastercard, they are taking down a blog,
    or other place where there isn't much processing. Even if activists give
    it up, the state will not. It can be used legitimately, and in the book,
    makes a great case for why.

Molly
    it is a tactic, amoral. Some people want to ignore individual actions

Amit
    This is an argument, in libertarian circles, of ideological purity. What
    molly said about power implications is essential. Can reverse racism
    exist? It is a stupid question in power relations. You have to think about
    who has power in a circumstance, and discourse gets muddled. That is huge.

Pharas
    There isn't a moral implication?
    I tend to think of picketing, and preventing people from getting to
    something in that sense, you're saying there is no morality tied to it.

Molly
    there is no automatic moral judgement, you have to look at it in context.
    One example is actually immoral. Basque. In the 90's they were excited
    about blowing stuff up. It was violent, they were super unpopular. There
    was an ISP that focused on hosting controversial political consent. There
    was an action that was condoned by News orgs and others, which they
    backtracked on later. The ISP eventually took down the site, which is
    censorship, and preventing an entity from functioning.

    DDoS'ing the PayPal blog, which went down for a couple days? That is not
    an immoral use. It doesn't prevent PayPal from processing credit cards, or
    freezing accounts for no reason. They can still communicate with the
    press. If anything, it is drawing your attention away.

    Indirect form of activism. I wouldn't get hung-up on the assignation of
    morality to tactic, but the analysis of the context around it.

ChrisKnepper
    I like your point that anonymouss went to activism with Scientology DDoS'es.
    Why do yo think that event shifted it to activism?

Biella
    There are many different layers of answer. My first initial answer, was a
    culturalist typical-anthro answer. There is a politics in controlling
    transgression, but it is not hospitable to activism. My first answer is
    Scientology in some ways the perfect nemesis to the geek/hacker world. It
    is a religion of technology that doesn't work, and science that is science
    fiction. A hackers worst nightmare would be "honey, I'm going to be a
    Scientologists." Hackers are anti-proprietary, Scientology is very
    proprietary. Scientology has the "one" technology, which is very rigid.

    Yeah, you have trolls confronting their perfect nemesis. They organized
    street protests, and how they did that is a fascination story. It had to
    do with a viral video, but it was humorous and compelling.
    Ex-Scientologists reached out too.

    Anonymous, which had become activist would ONLY protest Scientology, but
    now, it is *any* political purpose.

Molly
    Scientology is actually bad and evil. They cause badness to happen, and
    have a net negative effect on the universe. If we are going to protest
    them, then why not cyberbullys?

Biella
    For years, then there was the birth of a new network AnonOps, which
    embraced DDoS and hacking. They came into being somewhat accidentally.
    They felt that DDoS was a legitimate way. There was a historical moment,
    aplex boasted they DDoS'd the pirate bay for a client.

    The savvy person trying to coral the masses took advantage of the moment.
    A digital direct action win, that cemented the transition.

    Their support of Wikileaks in operation payback catapulted them into the
    international media spotlight.

    The final one, one could imagine that the ones that rose up to support
    Wikileads and file sharing, but the global revolutions in 2011, and the
    Arab spring, and Occupy, and Wisconsin, they got involved in all of it.

Biella
    It is an exaggeration to say there are no stable points, but yes, it is
    not what it was before. It was a group that was fairly stable where
    people knew eachother. To see so many different nodes now... there are
    stable relations between stable groups that are hard to map, which is
    easy to proliferate because anyone can take the name.

Beru
    I always thought of DDoS as utilizing botnets? Are we talking about
    voluntarily contributing or unknowingly contributing?

Molly
    The Electronic Disturbance Theatre, had a Zapatista plug net. You clicked
    the institution of your choice, and you picked one at the appointed time,
    and you get a "congratulations" message. That tool was opensourced, and
    used by other groups.

    It was the 90's, so there were other groups who said "go to
    Whitehouse.gov, and hit refresh for 20 minutes..." With Anonymous now,
    operation payback on the one had LOIC (fucking Hive Mind mode) and you
    could voluntary participate. That was a way for people to participate.

    There were people who "camped" the twitter profiles putting out info. But
    there were also illicit botnets that did contribute a lot of firepower. In
    that case, it wasn't equal, but a diversity.

Molly   
    I don't think it is a ethical to use resources that weren't allocated
    voluntarily, but I don't think it is ethical for charities to use their
    donations 90% for administrative overhead either!

Biella
    You needed the resource to make the action work, but operation mega
    upload used a different technique. It was based on scripts that made
    requests that would "stall," and didn't require botnets. Ideally, you'd
    have something that worked effectively, allowing people to participate in
    ethical ways. The botnets were deceptive, but they had to! The tool people
    using "LOIC" didn't have privacy protection.

    I sincerely think the organizers thought that with so many people.

Molly
    Electronic Disturbance Theatre came with a long list of caveats. "if you
    participate, you may get visited by police." They were very conscientious
    with putting that info out there.

    Anonymous was much more broadly based than EDT. Many of them were not
    street activists, and didn't know about all this training. They didn't
    have context, but that doesn't excuse the fact that their tool put people
    in danger. That is the major ethical lapse. Use of botnets was a mistake
    of ethical.

h2g2guy
    There was discussion to make DDoS a legit protest activity. Do you think
    the government will ever recognize that?

Molly
    A sit-in is also illegal... but it is recognized socially as a tactic of
    activism. It is a "this is what protest 'looks' like" It is a catch and
    release system. They don't want you to sit where you are sitting, and they
    move you. If you are not too much of a dick in the car, you typically
    don't get charged. Don't take this as permission to go out and get
    arrested... the government isn't going to come out and say "DDoS is fine"
    but a legal recognition within the processes of the system.

    This won't happen until we get to a case to go through the course. We're
    not going to get a federal judge saying "this is acceptable speech under
    the first amendment" since the PayPal settlement. Our system runs on what
    happens in the past, and we need that to happen first.

Biella 
    It is probably not going to happen unless there is incredible political
    pressure to change it. The folks in the PayPal 14 got off pretty light,
    but some can't get jobs, legal costs were tremendous... if you look at
    other arrests, Barret Brown participated as a journalist, and he was a
    very colorful character, with many roles. He wanted to get information
    that hackers got from hacking into things out. He was arrested and charged
    with 13 different counts, including sharing a link in IRC. The link was to
    a pastebin with stolen credit cards. He got charged with interstate
    trafficking and credit card fraud. We wasn't using the information, but
    was interested in the information in the emails that Stratfor had in their
    hack. He was facing 100 years, which got whittled down to 3. He threatened
    an FBI agent on Video, which he actually did. Another thing was he hid
    laptops during a search warrant, don't do that. But the third one, was
    chilling. After the hack, he offered to redact the names, offering to do
    it responsibly as a journalist. That was considered "accessory after the
    fact." Helping to redact the names was a charge he got convicted for. The
    judge said "you got too close to the hackers." He has to pay over a
    million dollar fine, even though he didn't use any of that credit card
    data.

    More of our info will come from whistle-blowers, and if you interact, you
    can get in big trouble. The legal culture does not recognize this.

Molly
    Legal system in US runs on precedent, and plea deals. 90-95% of cases are
    plead out... the system would be swamped and couldn't function. With Barret
    Brown, he was facing 100 years. You are faced with laws that are passed,
    and instead of judicial arm saying "wow congress, that is a shitty law,
    let's fix it." Instead you let threats scare people out of judicial, we're
    stomping out the immune system of government.

AJman
    will we ever see the CCFA change?

Molly
    Here's the thing about supreme court test cases... they show up when the
    context is ready. When you have someone fight their way up through the
    federal circuit decision. The right test cases show up, but they won't
    until someone with enough anger, like Weev, will make their life about
    fucking with the US Government for 5 years.

Biella
    The tough thing is, they keep you in jail here. You can imagine being
    released on bail, and going through it, but here, you are treated like
    such a criminal right away, it is really difficult. Because of Arron
    Swartz' suicide, there was much publicity. The hacker community is a
    privileged community, and compared to other groups getting screwed over,
    we can imagine it maybe going "the hacker way" but it is tough.

Molly
    This is why so many people get angry with folks like Sabu. The undercover
    cops. If it is that, or 150 years in jail, you pick ratting on your
    friends because you are a human.

Pharas
    Is there a congressional way?

Molly
    Do you have a million dollars?

Pharas
    Judicial review was sort of tacked on after the fact itself.

Molly
    Maybe that is how it started, but that is not how it is now.
    My viewpoint is, if you are not the Koch brothers, you are being
    systemically moved out of politics, and priced out of the governance of
    your own state and municipality.

    The judicial system helps to protect against that.

Pharas
    it's not though

Molly
    Sure, you can go make your own country.
    What Larry Lessig is doing, is not working super well though...

Biella  
    Naomi Kleins' book "this changes everything"

    The situation is so dire, and electorally, it is extremely hard. Simply
    relying on the market to come up with tech solutions isn't going to work.
    Some of the most progressive cases in the 60's, came because of the wider
    political culture. It depends on the culture independent of the
    government. There must be a vibrant external grassroots initiatives
    pushing on the political milieu.

    Tonight, I'm going to pitch Astrid Taylor, involved with a group called
    #Strikedebt. Students who owe loans to Corinthian, are on strike. They are
    working with the Department of Ed, but also doing direct action. It is a
    good example of how you can work through government, but not through your
    votes, to affect change.

Molly
    The judicial branch is "supposed' to be yours. If you wanna get depressed,
    watch the documentary called "hot coffee."

Fortnight
    When does news become history?

Biella
    In part, when you right a book ;)

Molly
    I'm a big proponent of "someone is wrong on the internet."
    So, as soon as it can be cited?

Biella
    it is so weird. Wikileaks was a very dramatic actor in the geopolitical
    stage, then it imploded a bit, and then the news orgs declared Wikileaks
    "dead." We saw this with Snowden!

    The news does not like to see things as history, but declare things as
    "over."

    There are platforms now, thankfully, to push against it. But theorizing
    the present is difficult.


Molly
    People were reporting on this like the pentagon papers never happened...
    That ahistoricity is a hallmark of journalism unfortunately.
