Molly Sauter
@OddLetters

researcher/writer/advocate of the internetz with a z


AP
    I'd like to welcome everyone to the latest installment of the MAGIC
    Speaker series. One of the folks who helps us do this is Evan Sellinger.
    Thanks to him for helping us do that. We had a great lunch with Molly on a
    number of topics that resonate throughout the speaker series this year.

Sellinger
    I went to look online, and though I know Molly, I forget where she is even
    a post-doc? But that was because she is still working on her PhD! The
    reason we're so excited is to push the conversation to where
    tech/sociology is headed. Molly is a triple-threat. Few know the social
    theory, and the content knowledge of DDoS activism, and perhaps no one
    else knows more about all three.


Molly

I'm a 2nd year phD student at McGill. It is just as cold here as it is in
Montreal, which is a nice, same, weather thing...


My latest book I'm going to talk to you about it. The book is also available
for free on my website. You wanna download it and buy a copy sometime in the
future, no hard feelings. Anonymous' December Operation Payback was their
first exposure to DDoS by activists. Was it terrorism? Was the internet on
fire? No one knew. DDoS, repeated requests on websites, had been covered
extensively in 2010, but in a cursory or incorrect way. It opened the door to
civil disobedience, but was far from the first use. It has been in use for
almost 20 years, from Zapatistas, to trademark disputes.

Place DDoS actions, into a historical and theoretical context in it's
potential for ethical practice. The internet attracts as a central ear of
organizing. Online, people sign petitions, investigate, amplify, donate, and
show support. As familiar as these tools are, the equivalent practices in the
online space, there is room for actions like occupations and sit-ins. Large
scale peaceable expression.

Electro-hippies, or Electronic Disturbance Theatre, through action, legitimize
this action. This forces disruptive activism into conflict with private
property. Free speech fighting with corporations. In physical world, activists
can take it to the streets, which is protected, like Skoki or DC. There is no
"street" on the internet. This rampant privatization face challenges, and the
disruptive activities online. The two domains are treated as the same. 

Charges of censorship are often thrown into the mix. "can't you come up with a
way to protest that doesn't step on someone's toes?" We've allowed the
corruption of the public sphere and it has none of the protections we expect.
There is nowhere online to stand with her friends and her sign. She can set up
a dedicated blog, but there is nowhere to stand up to a corporate giant.
Collective action becomes collective trespass.

At it's most basic level, a Distributed Denial of Service Attack prevents
communication. Complex or sophisticated tools are not required. A group of
people refreshing a page repeatedly for a period of time is a manual version,
which did happen to Whitehouse.gov in the early 90's.

One automated method, a ping-flood...

Another thing worth mentioning is botnets, which is the only way now, to bring
down a well supported corporate site. Instead what you need is either
volunteer based, or more commonly, an illicit botnet which you can purchase on
the dark net for like $50, which can be extremely effective.

To defend a DDoS is expensive. It is possible for a participant to spoof IP,
and turn it into a big game of whack-a-mole. If across many machines, it can
be small amounts of traffic.

Akamai or Cloudflare rent server space to corporations that have poorly
estimated how popular they will be, or are targeted by DDoS. Because DDoS is
so expensive, ISP's will say "my my my website, you are very pricey to
host..." so you get secondarily denied service after the initial action.


Why did I spend the years writing this book? DDoS let's us talk about
disruptive action in the online space. Freedom of speech, property rights, and
brings into clarity of detail, what assembly means online. What it means to
assemble a group.

The news media is the modern arbiter of public attention. Whose actions are
worth paying attention to. If the views presented are too far outside
mainstream for viewers or advertisers, then those ideas may not be aired or
debated in the open.

"Full and free discussion of ideas even we hate..."

An unbroken broadcast of status quo... others have presented interpretations
of the first amendment on the right to hear, and the right to be heard.
Internet has increased soapboxes, but the audience has not. You can avoid
unpopular opinion, and dissenters are being diminished.

This is a complicated process, activists trying to get the attention of the
mainstream. Resorting to extreme tactics in hopes of being heard. Disruption
is part of the modern repertoire of contention. In the physical world, it may
look like a sit-in. The status quo of the flow of information must be
disrupted. It is not he most important in all cases. Disruption.

It is useful to consider that not all speech is silenced. Disrupted actions
that are not accompanied by effective public messaging, risk being
misinterpreted or ignored.


Policing Protest in the United States, 
Speech out of doors

4 kinds of public space

1) traditional
2) designated
3) non-public
4) private property

The traditional, is the most public. Public streets, sidewalks, and parks.
It is the "Most Free."

Private Property is the most restrictive--the Owner can actually limit speech.

Electro-hippies did this around the Battle in Seattle, attempted to shut down
the email server the WTO was using to run that meeting. Their action can be
seen to reassert the internet as a public forum against private property. This
comes into direct conflict with the private/controlled space of the WTO. This
struggle for online space, mirrors the physical space where the black block
collided with corporate capitalism. They got into lots of fights with cops,
that is what that means.

Digital enabled activism, necessitates a physicalized view of the internet.
Websites become static containers, and maintain presence on the network. This
presence remains non-responsive but branded way, of the down site itself. This
is a occupy informatic structure.

This has a transitory

Destruction, in the case of physical world, and disruption in the online
world. The available made unavailable. The statements of those at the scene
feed into the spectacle. Th hope is that the public is drawn out of passive
consumption, into action. DDoS actions or web site defacements, ask why they
can't be moved to another space like "http://yourspeechspace.com"

In 2004, a federal judge described a Demonstration Zone as an affront to the
first amendment. Symbolic or central to a specific cause (contested places)
Facilitate messages, and add symbolic value, or connect to specific audiences.
Isolated demonstration zones, severely hamper activists ability to get their
message to those most relevant.

The open-airing of dissenting views is to deny democracy, and hamstrings public
debate. Temporary disruption would not be possible if you were not access to a
website.

This is one of the earliest DDoS tools, Zapatista plugnet. Electronic
Disturbance Theatre. This is specific language, with scheduled actions. From
4pm-6pm, all you gotta do is go to a web based tool, and click on an applet.

Not only do you get the sense as a protester when you bring something down,
you are also communicating with the target.

LOIC
If we have time during the qa, I'd like to point out more, but for one, now.
you type in the URL or IP. You can add a message if you want, and then click
"I'ma chargin' my laza"

HiveMind mode

    Instead of you sitting at your computer, and following the twitter account
    that hasn't been shut down, you can leave. It is an installed tool on your
    computer, and you have given control of your computer to a central IRC
    Server. This is a voluntary botnet. This allows you to have a life. You
    don't have to be sitting a basement, you can pay attention to all the
    stuff around you. You can say "I believe in this cause, and you use my
    computing power how you see fit." This allows people to participate,
    without being part of the anon culture, which can be problematic at
    times...


What is the reaction of this type of activism? The reaction has not been
overly sympathetic. Criminal. Even "Cyberwar." This has major implications to
online protest. Media coverage matters. EDT was repeatedly compared to
cyberterrorism and terrorism during their campaigns. It focused on the
spectacle of the incident. Media coverage typically focuses on the
"anti-social" stereotype of hackers. This supports the negative image
discrediting DDoS as activism.

Criminal perception fits into actions. In the WTO action in '99, the
Electro-hippies operated in a self-generated frame. They attempted to apply
the frame to their direct action, it was novel. The distributed dissent was
critical. Recognition of this frame was necessary to be viewed as legit
activism. They were labelled. They lived in the UK, so they were protected
from a lot of US regime nonsense. As a result of the action, the EDT was
labelled as "terrorists." We run the risk of losing legitimate DDoS.

Other analysts paid attention. Denning's testimony brings to the fore, a number
of roles of the state. Self-identification.

If the online zone is inaccessible.

When the relevant judge is the target of protest, it is in their interest to
reclassify. A significant case, Liberta.de

Before pleading out, faced 2 counts, each could result in 15 years and 500K
each. Potential sentences are high compared to other activist actions. Sit-ins
typically result in a charge of trespass. A fine of not more than $100, and
not more than 30 days in jail.

DDoS are prosecuted under the CFAA. Along with other computer crimes, are
classified as Fraud. Adjustments that involve the number of financial losses,
and number of victims.

For an individual

Q:  it is not decentralized, it is more centralized. I am a harbinger of doom.
I don't have a kludge for that.


Contract law is increasingly becoming the primary mode of interaction between
individuals. They were special things. You didn't need a contract to interact
with a grocer, or the person who teaches their children, or get their
newspaper. Now you do. To even get your internet to your house, or to use the
internet at the library, or the hotel.

Contract law is not intended to empower you, but lawyers, and people with
lawyers. Go watch "Hot Coffee" and learn about binding arbitration clauses.


If you guys had to guess, what do you think the percentage of cases that go to
criminal court, how many are plead out. 50%? 80%?

Around 95% of cases are plead out!

Because of specifically in this case, computer crime, but you can talk about
any in the federal sentencing guidelines.

Joint Sufferable Liability

When you actually plead out, you are still responsible for restitution
payments, which are not even criminal fines. This is a way for corporations to
extract fees on free speech.
