Provost Welcome
===============
Exciting to see shared benefits and challenges of rapidly expanding field.s
appreciate the sponsorships from AWS and Alfred P Sloan foundation.


Idea of Open Source seems new for many people. The idea of openly sharing info
among scientists and innovators is not new. Deeply connected to expansion of
digital tech over 40 years. Invention of internet in 60's and web in 1989.
CERN was where web was invented. Developed for automated info sharing.

By 1993, internet placed in public domain.
995, 10K servers across industry and academia an gov was born.

Open hardware, and open software have accelerated past open science.

This summit is an opportunity to reunite these.


Nat'l academy of science eng and medicine, and NASA, have establish the case
for open source.

France's nat'l plan for open science. Happy to have Roberto DiCosmo here with
us.

Making this a truly international event.

OS world has seen significant successes, as value becomes clearer: quicker
findings, verified findings, increase consumer choice, increase trust in
science.

For OSS to reach fullest potential, need to grapple with how to get the
incentives right. Methods to count and credit kinds of work that don't fit
easily into financial models or productivity.



Tenure and promotion metrics, that allow us to understand reach and impact of
open work. 

Glad to see agenda includes these kinds of questions. Important for expanding
reach across industry and academia.

At RIT, we're centered on Open@RIT, dedicated research center to expand across
the campus.

Open@RIT was founded in 2020, but work goes back to 2009. Honors course
developed educational programs for OLPC. Since then it has expanded.


Offer all students opportunity a minor or gen-ed sequence in open source and
free culture. Teach students how to contribute to open communities of practice,
in humanitarian.

We have LibreCorps, opportunity to get experience.

Since 2020, 25 faculty fellows projects, and expanding to institution and
non-gov orgs. Thank you SJ, for you outstanding leadership and commitment to
open work.

You have the chance to discuss, ranging from models from work, trends,
managing info overload, and other topics. The opportunity to network and
explore new ideas. Goal of summit, to bring industry and academia together, to
identify opportunities, address open work and challenges.

Hope you'll build foundation to support a new and better ecosystem. Wish you
the best for your next few days.

Intro Karsten Wade, Principle Community Architect at Red Hat.

Helps more people learn about and participate in open work


Karsten
    Take a few minutes to talk about open work definition, and where it came
    from.

    The power of naming, when you can put a name on something of the first
    time, and share for first time. You create more than power, but something
    that didn't exist, til the end of time.

    25-30 years ago, when Open Source was coined. It was about using Open in a
    particular way. Definitive for the end of the 20th century. 

    Open has certain qualities, and patterns/anti-patterns when we know where'
    in that space.

    When we met SJ, he was telling me about the Open Work concept, and what he
    wrote up, suggested we make it an official definition.

    As usual, inventing something that someone had already done.

    Open Knowledge foundation has a 2.1 version. Encompasses concepts of open
    that we mean. I came into this world as a writer. Getting things correct
    as an editor. Consistency was correct. Was not using the "capital" O, but
    we need to do that, and it means something.

    That's when we get the magic connection we feel all the way along.


    "We're going to 'open source' our science, our design process." You make
    the brain take turns to understand. If you 'open' that makes sense. But
    "Open" when you show someone, you are indicating something special. You
    have the power, and the capability, to define new things as an object
    that people will be creating. Nouns, like source, or science, or art, it
    encompasses all that. If its Open Source, or Open Source. We don't have a
    trademark in it, and maybe that's ok. You can fork the code, but you can't
    take the trademark with it. WE probably don't want that necessarily. We
    can have a cultural understanding Open in this special way.


    In my mind, OpenRIT, and Open Work is a new node. It's been coming for
    25-30 years, happening since the beginning of time. What the difference
    between collaboration and Open Collaboration? It's the principals that we
    bring to it.


    0.1 is available for your use. Please suggest improvements for 0.2,
    everything is interactive in this world.

    Thank you much.


-----

What are the different models for open work, policies, practices, and support
in universities.

Tom Arrison - moderator, NASEM
Kathleen Fitzpatrick, MSU
Chris Bourg, MIT
Randolph Hall, USC
Richard Holliman, Open University UK


Each panelist will give 5 mins of introductory remarks. Then I'll give a bit
after them, then I'll put out a few questions we've mulled over in advance,
and take questions/topics from the audience.

First, Director of digital humanities, kathleen at MSU

I am as you heard, Dir of DH at MSU. In that role, direct a small RnD group
called Match(mesh?), doing open scholarly communications.
https://Hcommons.org. Built by MLA, support Mellon Foundation and NEH. Designed
t support member-to-member communication int he MLA. Then opened to anyone who
wanted an count.


30K scholars sharing, building  web projects, doing discussion.
Got a significant NSF grant to help us open a first node on the network in
STEM fields, discipline based research, to bring people into research
coordination of FAIR and CARE principles.

Prolly renaming network as a result.

As commercial said, "I"m not just the President, I'm a customer too!"
(audience laughter)
Conducting my own book review on the platform, "Leading Generously," check it
out.

Can talk about infra, and goals, for a long time, but wanted to say something
personal.

"Why did I turn to open review? Why did my institution support me?"

I started blogging in 2002 as and Asst Prof. My work was getting into more
rapid communication than scholarly channels. Built not just a readership,
but a community.

Asked editor if he objected to an open review process with community. I wanted
that feedback. It was helped by my tenure status. My work was not likely to
fire me, and I was coming up to full professor. Wanted institution to grapple
with what that meant in promotional context. I got promoted, but not without
an ugly fight. IN a related/unrelated way, left the institute to go to MLA to
work on these kinds of issues. How to open communicate with scholars in
commons.

Built, but then wanted move back into academy. Wanted to go work for the
Dean who I report to, Chris long, dean of college of arts and letters, working
for 8 years, to transform tenure/promotion to recognize and support open work.
Happy to dig in during QnA.

Want to end by pointing at a key moment in the transformation between
institution and open work. In 2007, Bernard, at Liege. Key component of open
mandate isn't 'deposit into repo' but 'your review will only be based on
things in the repo.' That process of making the repo the source of truth for
annual review, produced a 95% compliance across the EDU...

Thinking about how we use policies not to just support, but foster a culture,
is what I'm hoping we can think about today.

Chris
    Dir of libraries at MIT
    center for research on equitable and open scholarship.

    Thanks SJ for the invite.

    Going to give a few remarks about context at MIT,framed around what the
    MIT libraries are doing to support and advance open scholarship.

    Done in a way, I hope, for how EDU libs can be major players in open work
    advancement in diff ways.

    One of few reps from a lib?
    Ok, I'm often the only one of my kind ;)

    MIT has a long history of supporting Open everything. 
    Open courseware to share our syllabus and content with the world so that
    everyone could access parts of an MIT education on the web.

    MIT and Luminaries roles in advancing early open source work is known.
    Faculty open access policies.

    2009, first all-campus open access policies. By virtue of being on
    faculty, you grant to us worldwide non-exclusive perpetual license to
    share you journal articles to the world, freely, and you have an
    obligation to do so. The obligation is sometimes 'honored in the breach'
    but I'll get to hat...

    I came to MIT in 2015. Not long after, we launched an open access task
    force. 10 years after policy. Reviewed every 5 years. We were a lil later,
    but looked at, what else can we do to advance Open@MIT.

    Task force looked at lots, won't bore you, but one recco, was, key one,
    each dept should figure out it's own path to open. There was a recognition,
    that there's vast difference between lit dept and Mech Eng dept. Whether
    opening data or monongraphs, or code, or protocols, big differences.

    Diff disciplines are at different points in their journey.

    Dept by dept, keep people on a trajectory to open.


    And, to develop a set of principles, how libraries would negotiate
    with publishers to get read access to things behind paywalls, but the
    rights of MIT to publish with them.

    The framework says "we're not interested anymore in paying rent for content
    our own faculty produce. Instead, we want authors to retain rights, and
    we'll pay for value-added services they put onto content

    We're up to 10 contracts with publishers who honor this, and out of
    contract with one who will not honor our framework.

    The libraries, that point of negotiations, with publishers, is one of the
    only places where an EDU has a moment of Leverage around journal articles,
    and specifically with the data.

    The library has a major role to play on advancing open on campus.

    Founding Dir of research on equitable and open scholarship.
    As I talk about open scholarship, I got frustrated with otherwise brilliant
    scholars who would resort to anecdotes on how to advance open. "Incentivize
    open X with Y!" I got funding from Mellon Foundation, to run research
    projects on 'what does work as an incentive to engage in open sharing of
    research projects.' interested in how open connects or not with diversity.

    ON open journals, there is less diversity that traditional editorial
    boards. We need to pay attention to that, can talk more.

    Very recently launched SIG support for open data. As on any campus, and
    campus decentralized, there's diff people doing different parts of open,
    and may be replicating work. Libraries is a centralizing force,
    interdisciplinary and accessible. Teamed up with colleague in Science, and
    offering Open Data Prizes for the first time at MIT. Designed specially,
    for next generation. Wanted to reward 'research trainees' for postdocs and
    students, not faculty. Creating data, sharing data, making use of open
    data, or theorizing and writing about open data. Having a huge event for
    open access week in October. Networking event for anyone working in the
    area of open data.

    Incentives question is an important one.

    WHOSTP just dropped the embargo for journal articles they've funded.

    We're looking to use that as a way to say 'this is now required.' you have
    to share without and embargo. It's required, lets reward it.

    Write into tenure and promotion policy, that you will be rewarded and
    recognized for that.

    Tenure is thought of as a third rail, but we're finding a nice in.

    90% compliance with a policy is amazing. 60% is what we have, I think it's
    the highest in US, and no one challenged, so I say highest in country (lol
    audience) not relying on submissions from authors, solicit work from
    authors, not asking them to submit it.

Randy Hall, USC
    How I got into topic of Open. Sidestep.
    VP of Research for 15 years. I'm now faculty. Study innovation at EDUs.
    About a decade ago, observed with others at EDU, digitization, was
    changing the products and practices of research.

    Creativity and collaboration in academy, how do we adapt to what tech has
    to offer?

    A decade prior, research was maybe a paper journal or book, and the paper
    work was not fast for distribution, not accessible, does not lend itself
    to sharing. Digitized, it can be shared instantly, and can occur in many
    forms. In this initiatives, we examined; 1) changing nature of product
    itself. Article with tables and texts is restrictive. 2) changing nature of
    collaboration. Others will be able to read, and iterate. That's slower. But
    digitize make it more instant.

    From fundamental principle, what about Openness. Changes from a slow
    process, to something that enables sharing immediately.

    Many things spun off. Some were meaningful policy, we changed our tenure
    and promotion a decade ago policy, to recognize these new outputs.

    Changed to recognize collaboration in our policies.
    Created other policies, like on attribution. How do you know who does what
    and contributes? Like mashups in music, how do you recognize derivative
    contributions.

    Bio repos, sharing specimens from a medical standpoint was another.


    Served as char of board of UIDP.
    Purpose to enable collab between EDU and Research.

    A group of companies, wanted to sponsor research where public dedication of
    IP was mandated in agreement. Neither the company, nor EDU to patent
    protect or copyright protect products in conventional sense. Who do we
    make that work? There were many complexities. Ofcourse EDU and faculty
    want to do it. There are some public dedicated research, obligations to
    inventors to share income, creates conflicting rights, so we made polices
    on that too.

    How EDUs innovate in their practices.

    EDUs struggle with alignments.
    With eachother, and with their purpose.
    All research EDUs emphasize 3 missions, production, dissemination, and
    public service. Doesn't say anything in there about protecting IP... does
    say things about promoting openness and sharing. Every EDU has an IP
    policy,a nd that does talk about protection and patenting an
    commercialization. Many have polices around InfoSec, and those in charge
    of it, may be motivated to limit access to data that EDU owns. Those
    intentions to protect 'critical access' can get in the way of openness.

    Tenure and promotion policies do align with openness as many ways.
    Recognizing sharing. They rarely use "open" in scholarship. Explicit
    recognition is more common int he UK. More common to recognize
    commercialization and entrepreneurship, than openness, in the USA.

    People writing the missions statement, and the tenure/promotion policy,
    they're working on different elements, and diff provenance.

    WE don't dare touch the IP policy that's been written 20 years ago...
    Tenure and Promotion is updated. Strategic plans are rewritten when a new
    pres arrives, but then sit there (applause)

    Mission are sometimes decades old.

    There's a tension between privacy inclinations and transparency
    inclinations.

    There is  private data. Health records. Student data. Pure privacy
    interests. Sponsors can insist on us protecting a dataset. Fed Gov has
    InfoSec requirements. There are things we're obligated to keep private,
    but EDU has mission to open and transparency.

    Where EDUS ought to make progress, is merging the notions of privacy and
    transparency together. Privacy policy are driven by regulations. There
    are transparency policy around sharing, but I don't see them together.
    That's an opportunity.

Richard
    based in UK.
    Work for OpenEDU, a national edu in UK, Scotland, and England.
    I did a few slides, I've tweeted them, you can look at reports.

    @magicrit handle has them.
    @science_engage.

    Everything is open access.

    Specific element of org change. We're all talking org and cultural
    change.
    You won't be surprised that UK EDUs are conservatives about changing. I
    lead a program 10 years ago, Open Research University. We're open in the
    way way teach, less so in research.

    Used "edge" tool. Embryonic, developing, gripping.

    Moving target across EDUs and disciplines.
    Openness in diff ways understood.
    Looked at evidence, big driver of change, to self-assess where they
    thought they were in the process.

    Named  things
    1) Define the area. Definition of open work. Came up with 'engaged
    research' less focused on product, but on the process by which it can be
    used. Helped with recognition of reward. The 'tenure' thing, we don't have
    that, but we have promotion. How to reward excellence.


    Talked about leadership need in this area. We had Provost chancellor who
    allowed us to go through promo criteria. Profiles for teaching, research,
    and teaching research. We created "knowledge exchange' and what does that
    look like? In 2015, promoted 9 profs in that profile. Gives you a wide
    range of excellence across EDU. Work in EdTech, bizmangagement,
    socialcare, env science, and others. Almost all type in org.

    Tiny thought: Moving target, addressing form different levels of
    embeddedness. EDU wen through revision/refresh. Didn't change the knowledge
    exchange profile, but worked on barriers. The backchannels, senior
    academics telling juniors to remove myths. Lots of my work, supporting
    academics and applicants and assessors, in how do we support in this
    broader range of work in open and engaged research.

    That's my lot :)


Tom
    Thanks everyone for the great perspectives.
    Quick thing about me, Dir of NASEM board in DC.
    Academies are private non-profit orgs, have a congressional charter to
    advise the national foundation on Science tech medicine Eng related policy
    issues.  The board on research data and information, been working with
    them for 5 years.

    Encompasses several diff projects. Working to introduce others. We do
    expert committee consensus studies. We do convening through roundtables,
    forums and workshops, and we do some operational programs. Do some grant
    management of programs in international collaboration. Fellowship programs
    for diff fed and private sponsors.

    BIRDI is a standing board/committee overseeing a portfolio of activities.
    More have been focused on promoting and fostering open.

    This report in 2018, open science by design. Committee was chaired by Alexa
    McRay(sp) at Harvard and Arnold ventures. Lays out reqs and findings on
    how to better foster open in US research enterprise. How society might
    take actions to foster open.

    For last 3 years, sponsored roundtable for aligning incentives on open
    scholarship. Facilitated stakeholder conversations, supported by
    participants. Randy/Chris have been involved heavily.

    That is, we're starting our seconded 3 year cycle of activity. First cycle
    produced a workshop report with authored papers,a nd toolkit for open
    science practices under a cc-by license. All available for no charge, all
    academic reports are.

    Roundtable has also resulted in spinoff activities, furthest along the
    Higher Ed Leadership Initiative (HELIOS) That's not an part of the academy
    actively, but they'll be reporting back to us.

    A third study, automated research workflows for accelerated discovery.
    Chaired by Adkins and supported by Schmidt Futures. Shows that access to
    computation, data, automated equipment, AI tools and techniques, have the
    potential to rapidly expand scope/speed of research processes across a
    number of fields.

    Report does a good job making case that next phase of IT supported research
    and innovation will be greatly enhanced by openness.

    We're trying to raise money for a couple new studies, on future of
    scholarly comms, one on how the US should play in the open research
    commons. EU launched one, a few others. Computation and Data resources
    being mad open.


    Pass the mic with questions.


First, been addressed to some extent.
What are pre-reqs to get started at your EDUs and keep going? Top leadership
support? External Funder? What other things? For EDUs look to start open work,
what do they need?

Kathleen
    part of what I needed was a sort of naivete, about what it would mean for
    me to write in public, and work in the open.

    Beyond that, I needed confidence that my EDU was not going to punish that
    openness. Took a few changes of institutional for that to happen.

    Current dean, working on revised polices, but also annual review policies.
    Getting faculty every year to articulate what the long term goals are. And
    how they won't be the same, even in same dept, and how that work is moving
    them towards the long term goals. That articulation, allows faculty to
    think very differently. Review becomes a conversation, instead of
    gatekeeping.

    Process of eval on 'what do you need to do?" v.s. "are you doing what I
    think you need to conduct" is huge.

Chris
    I agree with all that.
    In my exp, it's gone through phases. I've gotten a fair amount
    accomplished at first by flying under the radar. Didn't try to, but then
    you hit a wall, and if you wanna go further, you gotta build a coalition at
    the institutional level. I'm realizing now, my current active ally, is an
    Asoc. Dean in brain science. Advocate bc of reproducibility and rigor. WE
    have diff modes of accessing the power structures at MIT. I report direct
    to provost and sit on councils. I have access to formal power structures,
    but I'm not faculty. She has credibility of being a practicing faculty,
    and it's a different kind of power.


    Getting things done with different people with different modes of accessing
    power structures.

Randolph
    Fundamental grassroots interest.
    There are different people in diff disciplines, many humanities, interested
    in new ways of doing research. Digital in native form. Humanities in
    particular, moving form 'paper book' from final product. Evaluating not
    just paper. In Eng/Science, more than a decade ago, there was tension on
    whether a non-paper article counted as much as something in a paper form.
    We've gotten past that. Journal Articles are rarely looked at in digital
    form.

    Roundtable, one thing we did was making a guide. A 2 page guide, about
    'who should be involved?' 'what are elements of initiatives (infra,
    policy, rewards)

    Why we wrote for Provosts and Presidents. To align the pieces, it comes
    together at the presidential level. Research office, library, etc.. None
    have control at all levels, but converges at president's level.

    Many tho, don't pay attention to this issues. They deal with day-to-day,
    board, legislatures. Our purpose in creating Helios, was to get
    endorsement of president. President may delegate much of the work, but it
    has to come at leadership level, combined with grassroots, to make it
    work.

Richards
    don't disagree with any of that.
    It's very easy to make the argument for open work. Everyone here believes,
    we win the idea battle.

    It's harder to get senior leaders to changes. We need connections and
    allies and evidence. In the UK< we had to. We have an order every 7 years.
    They intro'd elements about 'working beyond the EDU 'to generate' social
    and economic impact'

    VPs leave. But policy level changes stay. Valuing over the longterm.
    Building postgrad to professor.

Moderator
    combine barriers/challenges with opportunities question.
    Identify 1-2 things, inside or outside, if removed or lowered, would
    facilitate the advance of open work?

    Opportunities, if advance the work, maybe you can see some of it coming
    already, what is the vision for what open work can accomplish in your EDU
    or more broadly, and how do you get more people to see that?

Kathleen
    start with barrier
    in EDU, primary barrier to change is a very stubborn intractable
    definition of 'prestige'

    For open work, opportunity to create new and more appealing and equitable
    forms of prestige. What it means to have your work make an impact in the
    world. That is a primary driver in a lot of academy, like the nelson memo,
    to lift up the work that was previously overlooked. Prestige has come with
    exclusivity. If we can redefine as an embrace of open an equitable, can
    make change across academia.

Chris
    absolutely key.
    Important barrier, we haven't figured out, related to prestige. There are
    pressures on faculty to publish their work. There is work involved in
    publishing. I am responsible for MIT press, there's work and labor an
    cost. We haven't figured out a sustainable model for publishing, if we
    haven't got rent extraction for content. 

    We have not figured out a new model, that is maybe 'journals as a service'
    but that's a real challenge. How do you pay for the labor and work
    involved in openly sharing research outputs, without paying rent for the
    output itself?

Randolph
    there is a lot of proprietary instinct. People become faculty often bc of
    independence. Even at big companies, your work is directed.

    "I don't have to bother with anyone" is a feeling many faculty have. That
    instinct is hard to overcome.

    Direct monetary incentives. Forming companies, monetizing research,
    creates individual pressure.

    Promotion from assistant to associate, more than promo to full.
    We can look at things like citations, but that's more meaningful when
    people are around for a long time

    Fallback is getting published into hard to get published journals. That's
    imperfect for understanding impact. Going from asst to assoc is hard to
    overcome.

    Last is how to pay for publication.
    EDus struggle with financial models. How to get EDUs to balance budget.
    Course subsidizes eachother, one things makes money, another loses money.
    You gotta move things around. Academic health centers pay for research by
    making profit off of healthcare. In some degree, private tuition profits
    pay for research.

    How do we pay for publication is very complicated?

    What will drive change? EDUs consider the competition that comes form
    private sector for innovation and prestige. It's not just just us looking,
    but getting prestige compared to google or amazon. They're building
    educational programs, an clinical programs, and they're getting into the
    space of EDUs. They're not losing prestige relative to eachother, but to
    the sector.


Randolph
    it's easy to make barriers at EDUs, harder to overcome.

    The two I struggle with most, are head of school, and PhD supervisors,
    who think they know what academic looks like.

    So I became head of school! Most obv impact was the way we wrote our PhD
    projects. They are different, more open, and more engaged. The work the
    students do now, set them up for their careers.

    "what kind of academic do you want to be?" that's a longterm change.

Mod
    thank you panelists.

------------------------
Panel #2
========================

Stephen Augustus
    went from  customer/solutions Eng to OSPO at CISCO
    Before Cisco, was at VMWare doing field Eng doing open source.
    Picked up a few committees, todogroup, k8s steering committee, OpenSSF gov
    board. Understanding the motivations of why and how to do OSS in industry
    will be exciting to get into into.

Mel, mod
    say you come across someone who wants to understand the benefits in biz
    value. How can that be applied in academia?

Nithya
    Happy to go first.
    There are tremendous company/industry benefits.
    Many of us are software businesses, and all our biz's use open source.
    It comes with characteristics that companies are not used to managing, but
    need to managed. It helps you manage more intentionally, and more
    Strategically. It's much needed. A bridge between the outside ecosystem
    and inside development community inside the company. You need that guide
    for innovation inside to navigate with the outside world. And for the
    outside world to know who to talk to inside the company for projects,
    sponsorships, or participation. You need that visible and consistent
    bridge.

    Lots of companies see this as critical to risk management, and innovation
    strategy, and to developer happiness. Developers want to work with
    companies that are open source supporters and good citizens. They don't
    want to work with companies that do not have ties to OSS.

    For EDUs, it's even more important. Not just from educational perspective,
    but how invention and innovation happens. How you use OSPOS as the
    language to connect with other companies and EDUs to get work done. It's
    a great place to place devs inside companies as well.

    My fellow panelists have much to say here.

Stephen
    She nailed it, I have nothing to add ;)

    When i think of structure:
        2 lenses
        contributor
        maintainer
        sponsors

        Doesn't matter if inside/outside academia.
        Visibility to potential contributors.
        Visibility of maintainers to support.
        Visibility of acts of sponsorship and altruism. There's a biz need
        behind it. Gaining viz for hiring, or selling.

        In my background, having done field/sales eng, and going further back
        as IT eng, worked in cost centers. In OSS, you're sort of in a cost
        center, when other groups are making money. 

        Every interactions is 'whats the sell?" What am I selling as contrib?
        Maintainer? Understanding what you are coming to the table with/for,
        and getting starting in an OSPO. This is my first OSPO, running or
        being in one. Sponsor added is a new lens, understanding how to manage
        relationships, being that conduit, and connecting disparate groups.
        That concern is different from industry and academia, important to
        all of us.

Ruth
    if you need to give a paper, and justify, you can go read them.

    "If you care about something, and you believe it's important, you hire
    someone to think about it all day." Maybe EDU cares about environment, you
    hire someone, or a team of someones, to think about that all day, and
    that's their entire job.

Mod Mel
    most difficult challenge? Most exciting?

Nithya
    thanks for the remote participation Open@RIT.
    2 hard tings:
        Compliance is hard. Tooling, processes, are still evolving. Even
        though we've been doing this for 20-25 years. Esp at scale, like at
        Amazon, to build the right tooling/process, that are not too
        heavyweight, but we do the right level of diligence on compliance
        matters, whether contributing or distributing, or using a new license.
        It's a big area, where we focus. How do we do it correctly, how do we
        make it easy to remember the legal aspects?
        2) Hiring good people into an OSPO. Stephen and Ruth are unique. Some
        OSPO folks come with broad sets of intersectional skills. Some come
        from comms/marketing, and at other times, work in licensing to have
        convos with IP/legal, then need to pivot and talk with developers
        inside, then talk with outside orgs. There are few skilled wonderful
        competent people with that range.

    The easy/exciting:
        how OSPOS are getting recognized to strategic to innovation.
        ...
        Ecosystems...
        Frozen...

Ruth
    Literally everything about starting Open Source Program at proprietary
    company is exciting and challenging.

    Finding everyone in the Org doing open source.

    "Jeff down the street has a repo we should have known about"
    "so and so has joined another foundation for 250K..."

    Finding those folks, and what we did at Red hat, was to consolidate
    joining those things.

    RHT is up to like 70 memberships.
    Someone would join, and we'd pay the thing, and no one was paying
    attention.

    Developing a process nd a mission for why you join.

    "Drop some money to slap a logo on it"
    the other is to participate.

    One is good, the other is not.

    Driving participation, is the more effective. Dropping that 50K just
    because there's budget at the end of the year is not a great reason to do
    it.

Steven
    easy part, joining Cisco, was I wasn't joining unless OSS is supported. I
    was 'tip of spear' and blessed from Exec leadership. Getting others to
    understand that's the message (open source is the strategy)

    Who's managing the CLAs?
    Who's still around that started the membership?
    Who's publishing blogs? 
    We're 3 people for a company of 80K...

    Understanding how to scale yourself. Stepping outside of tasks you're used
    to doing. Stepping away from the terminal, more video conferences...
    Establishing a web of trust across the company.
    Hired some of the best open source talent I've seen on the planet. I know
    anything I hand them, they will execute. Do the thing. Sign the paperwork.
    Move the ball. That frees me up to have convos with Directors and VPs, to
    show them we're a center of excellence for the entire company.

    We're the conduit to help you be successful.

    All the things are hard. Hardest thing is figuring out what to do with
    your day, because open source is fast and expansive, and you cannot get
    it all done, no matter the size of your team.

Nithya
    scaling is hard.
    Enabling developers to do self-service, and educate them on issues of open
    source when they need to engage, is the only way.

    You cannot be everywhere. When you have thousand and thousands of people.
    OSPOs tend to be small, between one person, to a couple dozen people in
    very large companies.

    Enabling the teams to put in automation, self-service, education in place
    is the only way to scale expertise of OSPO.

Ruth
    You may have a small OSPO, but if you can get 2 hours a week, or 1 hour a
    month from that person, you can build big impact! That's how this
    community thing works.

Steven
    it's not an open source office, but an open source PROGRAM office, because
    you cannot do it all yourself, scaling is hard.

Q: SGoggins
    When you look at corporate OSPOs, there are some that exist to achieve
    different directives. Some more focused on controlling software, some more
    focused on creating community. How are they shaped differently in
    different contexts?

Ruth
    I was look at LF, they have an org called the TODOGrup, a group of people
    in OSPOS who come together to talk about OSPO-y things. They've done this
    survey for 4 years to look at their growth. The report in Feb came out,
    and the steps of the maturity model.

    Not sure I agree with that outline, but they can came in.

    Step 0 is adoption.
    Then compliance, education, legal
    then community ed and participation (not sure that's a process)
    then finally, becoming leadership.

    That's more like likely functions, not a sequential step.

Nithya
    some companies do follow that path.
    Everyone starts with consumption.
    Then lawyers get word, and they want to get control or compliance.
    Then there's a random developer that wants to contribute back, and some
    companies don't allow it. Then you realize that you need to have community
    engagement in place.
    Then the ultimate is releasing software, engaged in lots of communities
    and company projects. In our company, it was all of the above. Diff parts
    engage unevenly. There is no corporate edict about 'how we engage in open
    source' but based on needs of diff business. Some parts are highly
    community engaged because that's important to their biz.

    Some parts are only concerned with compliance, and don't contribute back.

    Our job as an OSPO is about making an "EVENNESS" across the companies,
    while being cognizant of differences.


Steven
    cost centers, one problem when you start, you're on the back foot. There's
    already a biz built, and Open source is often an 'afterthought'

    Depending on where you land, marketing, legal, compliance, etc... will
    color what goals you're formed under at what time. I like that our OSPO is
    housed in strategy, which means it is core to biz.

    Were I not at CISCO, I'd be at Red Hat. They have a great model, the best
    for OSPOs. The OSPO function being set close by. Trendspotting.
    Structuring things near emerging innovations for biz, signals you are
    trying to get ahead of needs, as opposed to working them into existing
    structures.

Q - SJ: Discuss/Define Compliance?

Nithya
    2 unique aspects:
        1) it comes with a unique license, not a commercial license, created
        by maintainer to propagate the software.
        2) Community. How it's developed. Collaboratively. Globally.

        License aspect is what compliance cares about.

        To me, it's about respecting the license. What the developer of
        Software is telling us. "You can have this, and when you distribute or
        share it, respect the obligations of this license"

        For example, publishing the copyright, mention the license name,
        ensure it is carried forward in derivative works.

        There are new licenses coming out. OSI has a certain list, but there
        are thousands in the wild. Understanding whether one is ok to use as it
        pertains to what they write.

        3) Helping developers release software will proper license and
        attribution.

        4) distributing the software the right obligations that it can
        include. If you distribute GPL, must make source available, and an
        attribution notice that includes the copyright notice.

        Educating developers on these aspects.

        Compliance is also about protecting company IP. Using certain
        licenses incorrectly can compromise IP. Often companies acquire other
        companies, so ensuring that in a merger/acquisition, that that
        does not bring new compliance risks, and understanding their compliance
        knowledge.

        Respecting the licenses is compliance.

Steven
    I was an SRE eng in past life.
    One things this role has to consider is "what happens when something goes
    wrong"

    Positive light from Nithya, but I think about Fear/Risk.
    What is the cost of doing this incorrectly.
    Lawyers have said "we exist to make sure this lawsuit does not happen
    again" We're not doing it for fun. There is a cost of doing biz. Managing
    groups that might use OSS, even if they don't realize it, has huge risks.
    Getting code form the internet for free, makes it more likely it will be
    used. If we don't manage the way we report the way we use software, and
    manage developer education, and management education. Having a tight
    relationship with legal, to manage the huge risk component.

Ruth
    yep, goodcop badcop.
    Risk management and importance to community.
    We can give a whole days' workshop on license compliance, but that was a
    great summary.

Mel
    OSS doesn't get boring, always flexible. Talk about a time when you had a
    plan, and then something arose to make you pivot.


Steven
    I don't think there is a time that I've had had a plan that went exactly
    as planned... with OpenSSf and convos with Whitehouse around how Govs
    handle OSS and develop policy. It's flipping a lot of the notional
    constructs of certain pieces of software on it's head. Trying to
    understand how to handle going back to risk, vulnerability management in
    communities, where if you've seen the XKCD Jenga-block comic panel.

    Thinking about Kubernetes, the brains is etcd, there's a maintainer
    problem, and that causes reliability problems at the cluster level, which
    means business level. Looking at Amazon/Google/Microsoft, it has real
    impact. Do we help fund etcd? Etcd came out of CoreOS. There's a personal
    want, and a business need. Having those convos of 'hey, not as read up on
    vuln/community management, understanding patterns of why people leave
    communities, or how small communities grow and shrink. The ramp-up periods.
    The 3 different lenses of contrib/maintain/sponsors. Maintainers are subset
    of contributor, but that's not a small feat to get to maintainer. It takes
    sustained effort. You may not have that understanding or skillset in your
    org, the role of community education; "how do we build a community?" How
    do we make it easy to join, so that you can continue to support it.

    Plans don't survive impact in day-to-day.

    One of my team sin K8s. Anything that's written down, feel free to throw
    it out. It may have been correct at one time, but you're hired to question
    and improve. You have to be flexible and challenge what is written to
    improve over time.

    Don't make rigid plans.

Nithya
    you covered many aspects of pivot. 

    Agility, as Steven alluded to, is an important aspect of being an OSPO
    person.

    Licenses change constantly.
    If you consumed something under an assumption, then it changes, you need
    to advise on how to react to it.

    Security is front and center now.
    Got to broaden horizons to how to partner, how do I contribute to the
    discussion? How do I get ahead of problems through knowledge of ecosystems
    and how OSS works? How do I work with legal/marketing/PR in developing
    good relationships with leadership, and not assuming that everyone
    understands as well as you do. Continuing to share, and be an advocate on
    the outside, but inside as  a culture guide. All this requires to be agile
    and change with needs of biz, and needs of community, and the scope of the
    role.

Ruth
    Here's another way to define.
    If you reach the point to lead/host.
    You, as OSPO, are responsible to make decisions with thousands of people
    who don't work for you. If pivoting is not for you, OSPO-life may not be
    for you ;P

Mel - common misconceptions? How do you address and resolve confusion?


Nithya
    one thing coming in, you need to know all the tech areas that OSS is in.
    Forget that from the start. You cannot be a tech expert in everything.
    You are an expert in navigating the cultures of open source.
    You need to partner with technologists in particular areas, to work
    together.

    2nd is that an OSPO needs to do everything in open source.
    If you can partner with groups inside to do OSS more effectively, or to
    scale automation and tooling, you can get the job done.

    If you try to "be everywhere, know everything, open source everything" you
    will fail.

Ruth
    Having people be aware that it even exists.
    You have like a jilliion employees, right, at CISCO?

Steven
    yeah, first year, I was one-person OSPO. Things fall through cracks. You
    don't know here to get support."I didn't even know we did open source
    until you joined" That's a misconception that I have to help fix (we can't
    do it all)

    Ownership, whether external/territorialism. "Hey, that's 'my' thing!"
    "I don't want to own your thing, I'm trying to help you share your thing."

    OSPOs coming into 'their' territory is a misconception.

    Innersource is 'what if you did open source, inside the org!"

    "Why should my group share this code?"

    I know there's power an magic in sharing that code. If you look at it form
    biz perspective, without it being a weird 'corporate speak' 'with
    participating in OSS communities, we can monetize people who don't work for
    us!" no, don't say that, that's terrible.

    But working on Innersource, there's a force multiplier to contribute back
    to internal communities. I hesitate to do a 'needs justification' there.

    I spend my day, wondering why we even need to justify our existence. It's
    easy.

Ruth
    Teaching adults that sharing is ok, and collaboration is what we do, and
    it's on purpose.

    You get told to keep  your eyes on your paper, and compete for jobs, when
    they get promoted, you don't.

    Breaking down that mindset, and collaborating is one of the biggest
    challenges.

Mel
    What questions do the panelist wish I asked, then answer it?

Nithya
    I think you asked all the right questions.
    I'll use my time to say I'm super excited that EDUs like RIT and USC and
    JHU are also starting OSPOs. OSPOs are not limited to businesses. They
    belong in all orgs. WHO started at OSPO! It's a great way to have someone
    be focused on Open Source. If you believe that OSS is the most effective
    way to innovate today, you need to have an org that is focused on whatever
    industry or org you are in. Congratulations to RIT for taking the step to
    advance this knowledge.


Ruth
    who is in your OSPO, and where it sits.
    If you start from scratch, looking at what problems to address initially.

    It's not accounting, hiring accountants to do accounting.

    Some are focused on compliance and legal.
    Some are largely people working in communities, and doing community
    leadership things.

    One place is an entirely Engineering OSPO.
    The ones that are in OSPO, only work on Open Source. There are people who
    only do that there!

    In companies, Eng/RND or under CTO. There's a handful that sit in legal,
    depends on what they do, and what you hope to be doing.

Steven
    what are you going to take away from this?
    We have this huge opportunity to collaborate and contribute.
    And sitting in the previous panel, I wanna see how CISCO can help them,
    and connect our research department. I would encourage you all to let
    your walls down, and talk about fears and aspirations.

    Rock On.

Mel
    I want to thank the panel and the audience.
    I'm looking for work in 2023, if you wanna talk about opportunities, and
    it's time for lunch!


=====
Lunch
=====


----------------
Post-Lunch Panel
----------------

Sgoggins (he/him)
    Professor, 
    CHAOSS.community

Eriol Fox (they/them)
    queer, non-binary, invisible disability if you want to know (or not)
    care for a terminally ill parent
    identify as white racially
    Human Rights centered Designer
    been working in this space for 6-7 years.
    Work at Simply secure, doing work with OSS, looking at diff tools, not
    just OSS. Doing deep user research. Previously Ushahidi and PhD
    researcher, looking at how UR is done in Humanitarian space.
    Podcast on design in OSS.

Silona
    Exec Dir of IEEE SA Open
    140 year old entity.
    Standards and Open, not just source, but data, research, and hardware.
    Open Work definition, we love this, we've been waiting for some time.
    I've been doing open work like this since 2004, started championing Open
    Data in gov, when that was not usual. Exciting to watch that progress.
    Niche famous for Citability, making gov work accessible.
    I learned "citation needed" long before Wikipedia, being the daughter of a
    gov researcher.

Karthik
    I'm a senior Scientist at Berkeley institute of data science.
    Lead in Open source space.
    Just over decade ago, co-founded 'R open side project' to develop software
    tools to do reproducible research. Lots of work is making the infra for
    scientists, and building capacity for quality software. Teach how to peer
    review software, and develop practices for building good Software.

    Founded US software sustainability institute (modelled after the one in the UK)
    looking at how software is developed, and devs recognized for the work
    they do.

    Dabble in open data projects as well.

    Excited to talk open work.

Django
    we discussed a bit about diversity and our relationships with it.
    Comparisons of diversity in Open Source, and what that might mean?

Silona
    The one I go forward on a lot is role diversity.
    Not just developers. Program managers, Product owners, designers,
    artists, marketing evangelists, the people who do social media and
    events. The biggest one, Users. OSS is great for developer to developer.
    But outside that, often fails. Talk with academia and government about
    users needs that are not being met. That's a piece of it.

Sgoggins
    CHAOSS is focused on developing metrics and models to understand
    sustainability and diversity.

    To be called a contributor on GitHub, you have to commit code.
    Someone who contributes many things, not just code, is what our metrics are
    about.

    With support from Ford and Sloan foundations, thinking about ways to make
    DEI at the center of projects or communities of projects.
    May struggle with attracting and retraining new contribs.

    Same issues around gathering 'less folk who look like me, more who don't.'

    We've defined 6 metrics with GitHub, to be included as a DEI.md file to
    award badges.

    That's part of what we're doing.

Silona
    tooling brings in 'lazy' or 'convenient' metrics. The git commit aspect.
    We've been expanding our platform to measure chat, and events on a
    calendar, and things you create. Proof of concepting integrations with
    other metrics that are beyond self-reported.

    When we talk about diversity, it's useless without inclusion.

    Sitting down with a 60 year-old academic on why they should commit to
    GitHub, is difficult.

    Collaborative document formats, I can get them excited about, and get them
    the credit they deserve.


Eriol
    I was taking notes.
    There's a ton of ways to define and compare diversity.
    One that I use, is an intersectional diversity.
    What are the intersectioning ways that people involved in projects can
    identify. And how is that being upheld, supported, shown, if at all.

    Apologies for getting ahead to future questions.
    Lots of work in designers, is finding the way to bridge the needs of users
    of an open project, and something that's closer to a contribution. "what
    do we value in open projects?" we could say that the things we
    historically value are things that look or function like code. If those
    are the things we value, how are we ever going to change, unless we shift
    what we value with the hidden/invisible metrics.

    When I wanted to be a maintainer I get "huh? You don't know how to do X
    kind of coding?!" Some are like "yeah, sure"

    Expanding to sustainable people approach, not just a functional personal
    role.

    Karthik?


Karthik
    jump on a point about role diversity, esp in academic space.
    Not much metrics or recognition for this kind of work.
    OSS Industry, you have product owner, product manager, doc writers. In
    Academic OSS, these roles are hard to come by, and hard to recognize.

    Many who code get recognition, but many of the marketing and wrangling
    tasks, are not captured in the project metadata. It becomes hard to get
    picked up in the automated metrics, and get recognition. This is maybe
    more unique to academic world.


Silona
    I wanna toot SJ's horn.
    One of the things exciting about OpenRIT, is that 39 departments wanted to
    collaborate. Communication, and business, and other departments. Imagine
    the impact that can have on Open Source. There's something juicy that can
    happen there.

Eriol
    one of the things I find really interesting, is how we recognize work in
    OSS, comes up in design. Frequently, hard for designers, to have
    recognition from design industry, outside of the 'walled garden' of
    contributing to open source, when you go into design field,
    industry/academia, there's confusion about design in open source.

    I don't know if I've come to solve it, but the bridges to recognize more
    outside of the OSS space, making it make sense in industry spaces.

Django
    this is something I've encountered and discussed with SJ.
    Metrics always lead to blinders. Someone is more concerned with ROI, as
    opposed to how successful a design was. A design is new, being produced,
    maybe you're not involved, but you contributed heavily in the beginning.
    It' shard to discuss it, without specific metrics for success. As soon as
    you evaluate metrics, you get inspired to disregard things that are not
    in the metrics.

    We discussed, 'what are barriers to metrics based- analysis?"

Silona
    Steph Lieggi (sp)
    came down from a 'designer' point of view, rather than 'we have these
    things we can measure.'

    That's not how we do science!
    You gotta go first for the pieces missing.

    We've been so developer focused, and we need to reframe from a
    'designer/user style' perspective.

Sgoggins
    when we talk about science, and how scientific software is evaluated.

    How many of you have used 'downloads' as a metrics?

    They're a simple metric.

    That's like a metric about 'buying a car'
    the manufacture, and the service and engineering are beyond the buy
    metrics.

    That's critical to uncovering the 'hidden/invisible' work that happens in
    open source. Talking about new metrics, helps to surface those things.

Silona
    DPG (digial public good) alliance
    "How do we measure impact?"
    that' show you get funding and sustainability. Then we don't need to worry
    as much about corporate dominance issues.

Karthik
    that's an interesting point about funders.
    Making the case of impact for software.
    I've used downlands in the past in funding applications.
    Even when I evaluation grant proposals, downloads and dependency data is
    front and center of impact analysis. Hard to move past that.
    Finding ways to measure other ways, and to think beyond those metrics.

    Downloads are not the most useful.

    The best selling car being a measure of popularity maybe for cars, but not
    for software.

Eriol
    I was advising a commercial software app how to do login/sign-up.
    They wanted to talk about gender, and I'm a gender-y person.
    They wanted to capture gender, to better serve, and capture for  reason.

    "Ok, but it changes through life." you wont capture when someone goes
    through transition, or any fluid gender. And they were like "WOW!"

    It's not just with gender that it changes. Diversity analysis is a
    set-in-stone, kind of metrics. We're not understanding the human process,
    less intrinsic that we are, like part of our identity.

    Putting into a 'zeros and ones' form, may not be something that everyone
    is focused on.

    I've written a note about how the ways to investigate these barriers, test
    them, and break them, is a human centered approach. Understanding how
    projects work, and who is involved. Diversity and inclusion is an HCD
    based issue. 

    Impact is a very colonial space. I would encourage design justice
    practice, thinking less top-down approach, and more of a 'how do we do it
    from the community up? To better describe what they want to tell, and how
    and when and why?" that might be a better process for everyone.

Sgoggins
    we say OSS, and think of "how we collaboratively build software"
    if i look at OSS, there are many diff operationalizations and purposes of
    that software. 

    Stop thinking of it as a single thing, but thousands if not hundreds of
    thousands of forms of organization.

    What I need to measure to live my values is different. It's not just one
    thing. Breaking the 'one thing' mentality, would help.

Django
    It's not just open source, but the 'ecosystem'
    broader impacts and intersections in various ways.

Sgoggins
    ecosystems are collections of projects and people, and they take different
    forms with different roles.  A dynamically organized collection of
    resources to solve a problem.


Django
    intrinsic metrics, we use subconsciously.
    Ways we consider experience, and ways we consider who would elevate to
    maintainer status. Ways we measure successful projects and contributors?

Silona
    Open Source Governance Standard
    All the ways that you become a maintainer, some are not that open.
    Some are corporate dominated, sometimes a single corp.
    Bringing in role diversity.
    The most common pathway, and 'best' pathway, is a contributor does a lot
    of contributing, then they become a maintainer.

    If the only way you can elevate is by commits, how do we change that to
    include others? It's exclusive.

Eriol
    tooling, a controversial bit.

    This is tricky. I told this story earlier, how it felt impossible, who
    does not want to be a developer, that wants to be valued.

    That whole way that we have value system needs to shift. How do we begin
    to value the things intrinsic. I have a process to understand how we value
    docs. Maybe you don't though?

    There's a member of the designer community, Victory Brown, who leads the
    Open Source Design Africa chapter. She's working on with my endorsement
    and support, how to support designers in those countries, get
    recognition. When I say "platforms" you may think of one or another.
    Designers are not in those spaces as much, and need to be brought into
    those spaces. Shepherding designers into specific spaces where people
    code, learn throughout the process, formal or otherwise. Our tools don't
    have those kind of integrations and recognition. Industry doesn't widely
    accept this kind of accolade, and won't get recognized for it.

    I know there's some designing tooling that's getting better and very
    exciting, but until there's a way to settle arguments between proprietary
    and open source tools, there will still be invisible things still.


Sgoggins
    in CHAOSS, we build metrics around contributions for all different tools.

    Open source occurs in async platforms, but design tends to be more of a
    synchronous process. There's a mismatch between how organic progress
    happens.

Silona
    we formed 3 advisory groups.
        Community advisory group, watches ethos.
        Marketing advisory group, includes osint, social media, designers
        Technology advisory group, includes developers, products, designers,
        architects security.

    One things we find, opening up our tooling process, they can submit tools
    to submit to the platform, so more people can have these options, to
    gather diverse metrics, and use those tools.
    But we do have the requirement that the tools be open source, and that's
    hard for designers.

    "you get what you pay for"

    The things that are created are not always great. How do we grow? 

    We talk about occasionally, the Proprietary ones, the API side to
    gather metrics, but that's different than our mission.

    Finding tools for all the roles can be brutal.

Karthik
    Similar to what other panelists said.

    I think the tooling comment is interesting.
    I struggle with it, bc there's not much tooling available for measuring
    what success looks like in Open Source. Beyond CHAOSS, Don't know of many
    tools that will give you measurable metrics to repeatably run over time
    to see changes.

    How to see some measure of success? Much is just GitHub metrics, or
    describing roles of non-traditional roles make to project. That's big for
    what we consider success.

    In corporate space, there's many commercial tools to measure impact.but in
    non-profit/academic space, there's less. I don't see CHAOSS used very
    often in cases where people need to get recognition for funding and
    promotion.

Silona
    highlight OSINT, where we get other metrics.
    One way we can go outside the tooling. Seeing which ones we can go through
    to get signal. Sometimes in OSINT you can get numbers out of tools if
    they're not secured properly.

Eriol
    trouble trying to understand, the desire to understand what success in a
    quantitative way. Designers, or a design, as a proxy for other stuff. I
    think that's always going to be tricky. I was asked many years ago as a
    design manager, to prove that this design has made us more money.

    There are many components to design, and cultural things, and things
    outside in life as why it was successful that contribute to why a design
    does more or less numbers. It's hard to pinpoint ROI in those ways and
    terms.

    It's about a series of iteration and hypothesis. I read a series of
    papers about testing usability in design, where there were 3 different
    interventions that UXers tried on a project.

    One project that implemented the design, after time, ended up rolling it
    back, not enough time to test whether successful or not.

    I dunno if we're at a place yet to give design enough time to collect
    metrics. There's a value question "We don't like this design, we don't know
    if it works, we want to roll back!" doesn't give us time to collect the
    metrics!

Django
    we've got about 15 mins left.
    Where id like us to go, is into developing standards.

    It can be difficult to determine metrics for success, and in the many ways
    'were developing outreach and inreach in diff projects. I know you work
    with standards.

    Would like to go into that, and how we can impact that in the future.

Silona
    a part of that is about 'what kind of standards' you are doing.
    There's many ways they are done.
    Some are done by implementation.
    Apple creates de facto standards, for example.

    IEEE is about eliminating corporate dominance.
    Consensus based.
    Ethics in AI one we're doing now, but takes longer.
    There's conflict with OSS community, since it takes longer.
    We come at it from academia standpoint.
    Hard to get a bunch of coders who just want to do something right now, to
    play well with that.

Sgoggins
    defining standard ways of describing the way we do things?

    What is a commit was a long discussion int he beginning.
    We have a consistent answer, even if it' snot right.
    It's not an IEEE standard, but it's context for a decision, and the data
    needed to measure. It's useless, unless you provide tools to measure that
    too.

    To Silona's point, and Eriol's, becomes criticial to useful standards.

    They want things that they can point to, they help. Tools that express
    standards can help.
    Faculty and employee evaluation systems, it's well designed right?
    (chuckles from audience)

Karthik
    anything to add.

Eriol
    the term 'standards' is not exact for design, but there are best
    practices.
    There are some things that are being done like the 'double diamond'
    process. There's the UX heuristics. Designers can bring these things when
    they are involved. This sounds like "we need to begin to have standards
    conversations about how things from other functions factor into how we
    define metrics"

Silona
    the 7000 series, is about ethical design.
    AI, automotive AI, things like that.
    Spreading it's wings into other portions.
    Unusual, as pragmatism comes first. We didn't think of all the ethical
    constructs when making things. Building 'evil' stuff, wanted to gather
    information, didn't think about privacy. Wanted to call out the 7000
    series.

Eriol
    if you didn't already know, the funciton of a designer is to think about
    the exlcuded and included users, and how to design for them.

    by virtue of including those kinds of poeple, 'who is using it, why they
    use it, who are we not thining of?" that's a best ptactic/standard in
    design, that can only help with ways of measuring.

Karthik
    I lik eth eidea of more standards development in this space.
    sgoogons brought up, ther's working gropus who spetn time defining what
    things mean, before collectin gdata.
    for other areas, there can be more community involvment.
    jsut startin gto scratch surface.

    one area, in ethics, standrads around what is implletnet, and wha tth
    ebounds are of sofwtaser. Thinking about how researchers develop
    statistical methods, but don't tell you the limits of that tool, and
    hwere/how that can be applied. 

    Josh has funded many in this room, and we've been getting input, thanks to
    support, around statitstical tool, and suporting tooling, for when things
    are used outside of the intended context.

    usability in open source is good for us.

Karthik
    when you create a standard, without a diverse working group, you're still
    gonna hve that problem.

    the only people showing up are the same people, and they'll have the same
    limiteation from before, if you don't have different people.

Karthik
    ties into a point for Eriol
    we don't have enough time to observe impact.
    making sure docs are translated into other languages, that's something
    that doens't get enough work, because the impact is not immediately
    observable.

Q - nolski:
    you talked about metrics, and DEI. In particular, in OSS, was mentioned
    that OSS struggles with this. YOu have personal struggles you've
    witnessed. There's many initiatives to measure individual projects to make
    them more inclusive. Do you think that focusing on individual metrics, it
    moves away from holistic issues? Open WOrk being structured in a voluntary
    way, not many support programs. Curious about dichotomy of individualized
    v.s. holistic efforts to make inclusive for all?


SIlona
    comes back to stustainability and money and resources.
    you don't brin gthat it, you'll have more problem.s

    corporate world, different interestes.
    but in npo and gov, the focus on those apsects. Adressind in different
    ways. Digital Public Goods. DIAL is doing evals of software. Should have
    Josh come up and answer (I"ll be up tomo morning to ansewr, lol)

    WHy iEEE is interested in tackling, is that int's not jshort term, but
    longterm. I've experience the clash between startup and npo timing.

    keeping the inertia going, burnout is a real issue with others.

Sgoggins
    Sitting with Demiteris cheatum at OSSNA
    talking about this problem, making a largescale impact.
    they're a large scale platform.
    DEI.md

    just like a file in a repo can nuture in a large grop of projecs, we think
    it can make a difference. We're making this part of github.
    behidn the scnese, if oyu don't have a coc and contributing, you don't
    show up very high in the search resoults. 

    by adding DEI.md to that, we can have simliar impact.

    that was over a beer, but those small ideas can scale change.

Karthik
    that's a great question, and we have to wlak all the time.
    hard to come up with bespoke metrics on project-by-project.
    quantitative metrics become easy to game.
    this is a thing we chase constantly.

    I don't hav ea great answer, but ot say that people need to both.
    Standarized metrics give easy comparison, but if you've have unusual
    seuccss, imporetnat to caputre that, and put it into writing. even if it
    dones't go well into a table.

    ctiations is somehting we care deppely about. Not just how many, but where
    is it cited, and what domains it's being cited in.

Eriol
    asking about broader cultural change in working openly?
    When you ask, first thing my brain wen tot, frustration, movement in
    design industry "oepn Design' v.s. "open source design'

    making desing files na dprocess available is what "open design' means, but
    their doing open work on proprietary tools. The convos are rich for open
    space, but we're missing it from the slightly different wording than what
    we're used ot.

    frustration, it's changing, but that we don't teach designers to do more
    open practices. Unless you find an interest in it, you'll never discover
    it. Cultural/economic changes, the stuff in open source design, is on the
    'other side of the curtain' but making sure the people who shouldvalue the
    stuff open source designers shold do.

Silona
    I'll end on a negative note :P
    caution dependence on commercial entitty like github.
    I remember sourceforge.
    we need to look beyond that for our tooling.
    it's ironic to talk OSS, but then depend on a commercial closed entity.

Sgoggins
    if anyone has a 250M to invest in an alternative

    Ballmer did 'develpoers develoers developers' 20 years ago.
    it'll be hard to beat.

    I agree that relying on commercial enterprise is dnagerous, but I don't
    know who I'd work with in our lifetime to make a change.

Django
    we're going to break now.

-------------
What are the simliariaties and differences in community managment in FOSS,
Open Science, and Games?
-------------

SJ
    I'm old enough to remember when alphas/betas were closed, not proejcts you
    shipped ;P

    in AAA games commjinty, looking at MMOG, character designs released almost
    immediately in the process. 2 years before they're shipped, they cost 10-s
    to 100-s of Millions of dollars, with 10s of millions of players.

    in terms of being open communties, they encourage commuitines and actively
    create tihngs that cannot be done in a game. a Dragon to be killed, it'll
    be designed so that only 60-70 players can defeat it.

    YOu get players creating guilds, organizations for players to work
    together to acheive goals. SOmetimes that maintain for decades. Online
    gameplay at this scale, can become part of people's lives.

    WoW, the reslease and player cycle, there was a guild of Academics that
    referred to their weekly meeting as "bowling night."

    these are huge goals. We've seen badges as one way to incent developers to
    do things. Remy had a group of students one year as part of SURF, show
    that on paper, incentvzing development, though we didn't find a funder.

    What can we learn, from these diff communities, to get best practicdes
    from one to translate to the other?
     the RIT group was resonsible for creation of Fedora Badges, and the
     community was skeptical, and then hundreds signed up.

    Marie can talk about traditional open source.
Marie
    badges now has 17000 people that have signed in.
    My name is Marie Nordin, Fedora Community Action and impact Coordinator.
    Work out of red hat's OSPO. The fedora project is a linux based operation
    system, we release every 6 months, we have thousands of contributors
    worldwide. My job is to support in many ways:
    day -to-day operations, budgets oversight, evnet planning, project
    management for different teams. Code of conduct incident management. In
    the past 3 years, isnce I started as FCAIC, there's been a few exciting
    things I got tow ork on.

    Just as I started, the pandemic hit. I thought it was going to be a travel
    the globe kinda job, and it didn't turn out ot th be that. We had to move
    to virtual events, and it's been kind of bummer, and it's exciting to be
    here today, but it' was exciting for us.

    Flock to Fedora usually pulled 200 peopel. First virtual was 350. Third
    had over 1000. The growth there is amzing! My hypothesis, is that we're
    bringin people who coundlt travle cl;oser to the devs,a nd gettin more
    people involved. Herard about newcomers to the team was 'hey, went to
    event, then wanted to contribute.'

    Went into revamping the outreach teams. Ambassadors, commops, advocates.
    That took listening to the community, with empathy, and making decisions
    based on that. Making art, surveys, meeting in many ways.

    Last thing, Fedora Code of Conduct. was able to pick up from predecessor,
    and revamp it. It was a lengthy process. Was with Fedora COuncil, members
    of community, red hat legal, many rounds o ffeedback brought in. Once we
    got the new one out, the incident reports started roling in. Had a bunch
    of experience with that.

    Now i'm moving into a community outreach role based around Code Of Conduct
    SPecialist. Taking the work of Fedora Coc, and applying to other
    communities.

Ana Jimiensz
    TODOGroup Program Manager
    My involvement in communities started in Bitergia. Softare development
    analystics firm. Highly involve din opernsource. Tooling was open source.
    they were my mentors, I spent 4 years there, taught me everyting I now
    about open source.

    In the roles I had, involved commuinty management in some way.
    started as developer marketing. Then got into data science, got my MS in
    DS. Bilt a model to understand commits. Got into todogropu, which is a
    group of orgs that practice OSPOs. They get together to build common
    tooling, and resources and guides to help other orgs to build their OSPOs,
    and advance in thier open source journey.

    inspiring these orgs to build more effective programs. I like what stephen
    said, I manage an open source community of open source communities :P

    Open SOurce leaders, trhing to talk about and share learnings about how to
    do open source. all the thigns we've been doing.

    Started one of my daily tasks was to grow community. nurtuer. daily jobs
    has onboarding ugides, docs, and procdeures on how to contribute to the
    community and the different repos and programs we launch.

    build network in this space. So practicioners can start conversatoins, and
    ntworks doing conversatoins is where magic happens. "Lets work together ot
    produce a new guide a new tool or a new process to help OSPOs"

    Hand it to cat!

Cat
    I'm cat allman with Google
    background in OSS goes back a ways
    Mount Zinu (unix, trademark)
    first commerical implementation of berkely unix, back in the 80's
    comercialization of sendmail
    working on gsoc, google-code-in, and giving money to opn source for 15
    years.
    moved onto a part of google called "deelpoer ecocystems"
    focused on a 2007 20% project, sci foo camp. an invite only unconference,
    for scientists up and down the stack. Started and ALumni community the
    month before lockdown. Got about 1000 alums, and get together in a
    googlegrup and talk about whatever. They're super smart, and the kind of
    place where peple who biult the MRNA got to drop in and clarify a couple
    of points! how relate dot OSS?

    part of OSS is science. Science happens through code. Evething is done on
    computers these days, but the phyusical compononents are still brought
    back to hte computers.

    OSS comes out of academia. The original arpanet. 6-8 EDUS originally?
    Science being intrinsically involved in Open Source not new. It's founded
    on scientific method in the first place.

    arugably, commnities in OSS can be different based on commercial or
    academic peserpsecitve. SOmething s I see in sicentific projects can be
    small and purpose driven. Some will be adapted by other research labs, and
    as they grow, the community management beocmes similar to commerical
    projets. I'ts not that much different that' free range' open source.
    Github is full of 1-2 person communites, designed to sovle their issues.
    Somtiems they maintain funcitonality beyond immediate contribute,
    sometimes they wither away and die.

    scientific community has additional challegne, in academia (we can talk
    differents between fundamental /applied reserach) tenure brings unusals
    pressures to Open Source. Is code a tenure artifact? From discussions
    erearlier this morning, seems like it's becoming the case. in the academic
    world, cod eprojects, and contriubtoins that support coee and projects,
    are becoming recongizged as viabl eartifacts, but htat varies widley from
    institions, and even more from coutnry to countrhy. Ecxicted to see people
    from outside US.

    My experienc ein OPen Source in science, is obvervatoiaoial, nless thatn
    experiential. I'm hoping you'll contirbutre your lived experience ot the
    session tomor.

SJ
    wanted to throw out experiential stuff form being a community mangeer in
    academia.

    EDUs are metrics driven. Esp in terms of tenure. I'm lucky i was tenured
    before I stated teacing students in open source. There were no grants, if
    ou walked upped ot a freshly minted PhD student, and given first classes,
    'what is your research plan' and you said "open source" they'd say'
    there's not grants, go find somehting else!"

    that's changing.

    studnet and faculty engagments, challenge for OSPOS, is almost impossible
    to track.

    3 classes of people at EDU
        - Students (IP rights vary greatly. at RIT Students own IP, unless being
        paid) at some EDUs, the EDU owns your homework. Studnts can use tools
        to biuld softare, and commercialize, and they odn't even owe me a post
        card or thank you note. Either you have 100% or none IP rights at many
        places.
        - Staff often don't have IP rights, as they are pay-for-hire.
        - Faculty, are hardest to wrangle.

    when you start a program, people want metrics on students etc.. .the
    program we estalbished,had
        formal classes
        experiential education
        and internships

    much is not easy to track
    the minor that we started in open source is the only one we know of in US
    and world. We have double-digits full minors. But we've had hundreds who
    went through hackathons, or got co-ops, or took 'a class.'

    i have students i'm still in touch with. I got sutdnets who came fo the
    minor, som in this room.

    Some only engaged with hackathons, and are in this room too.

    it's hard to find numbers, and from the community, I get "where are your
    commits?" They're sitting in this room! They're not graphics, or
    interfaces, and it follows back to the 'whats the invisible stuff."

In terms of managing commnities, what are the hard htings, what are easy
things?
    In my experience, open science community manager is very rare. Sloan may
    have input, who wants to follow up first?

Ana
    My experience in TODO.
    one of challenges when building with new resources and tooling, OSPOS are
    quite diverse, and there's no template for an OSPO. WHen they try to put
    it into guides, it's just that, a guide. It cannot be 'one way' to build
    ospos, there is no one single answer. We tried to create serveral paths,
    and guides have real exapmles from other orgs, and what worked for them.
    YOu can apply it the same, or not. 

    we've seen ospos build on common tooling for compliance and community
    building and biulding IT infra specific for their industry. Automotive,
    for example.

    in the community, how can I gather all the different paths from all
    different OSPOs, and put that in the proejcts in the community, and make
    them avialble, and not say 'this is one path' but all the paths that can
    be taken, and transprently document htat.


Marie
    challenges and successes

    brings me back to first sessoin. Tring to figure out how to serve the
    needs of the community working within red hat. Naviagating, talking to the
    righ tpeople, finding the right person to get done the thing that needs to
    get done. Convincing them that it needs to happen. Fedora is an almost 20
    year old project, and not always htough to fin the biz process. Work
    within Red hat to advocate within REd hat.

    Putting a lot of yourself into the work, boundaries is a topic that hasn't
    come up.

    esp in pandemic, you could work all day without anyone to stop you.

    making boundareias and sticking to them, is a challenge.

    Relationships with people in community, and freinedships grown wpoeple
    have changed my life an dhelped me grow as a human and a professional.


Cat
    I have two stories to tell that illustrate the tension between
    acadmeic/scientify and the commercial aspects of OS community.

    first is legal side.
        when pandemic started, there was an incoming class of Summer interns.
        What are we gonna do to give access to core systesms remotely?

        Ideally, open source covid related work. tlaking with contact at Brode
        institute. They told me everything there was OPen Source. Everything
        was going swimmingly, until we got a contract that assigned all the IP
        to them. They were very nice about it, and the covid research was
        done, but it illustrates how there can be a separation between
        reesarch and the money side, at even the most well funded instituions.
        Open Soruce needs to navigate the translation barrier very often. As a
        scientific project enters realm of commercial.


    Summer of Code
        i've been on the seleciotn commitee for mentoring since 07
        every year, i have the same argument with individual that only
        comercial proejcts count as open source, not scientific/acadmia.

        I believe strongly that science and students are important, and I'm
        happy to say, I fight for biomed projecgs, but year over year, the
        same person keeps arguing about htis. I suspect this is not that
        uncommon, that scienc rpjects 'dont' count' because they cannot reach
        thousands of contribugs.

        I think that's wrong. not just about how many commit, but wha thte
        code does, and how it contributes to science and humanity.

Marie
    Success, Mentorship.

    having a chance to mentor thorugh outeachy has been amazing.
    I got invlolved in Fedora through Outerachy, doing fedora badges design.
    7-8 years later, i was able to mentor designers in Fedora, and watching
    them grow, and gain confidence, and learn, and grow that attachments, has
    bene super fullfilling to me, and a joy in my life :)

Ana
    Challegne
    How hard it is to translate what the community wants to make, and the
    ideas they have, into the project, and turn it into actions that nuture
    the community. Lots of people have great ideas, but everything comes to
    you, and you have to be the translater to get the knowlege into a project
    tha thelps the community as a whole.


SJ
    another aspect is language and linguistics
    Open@RIT is not an OSPO, we removed 'source' because we didn't want
    arts/humanties to say 'this isn't for me.'

    secondarily, wth respect to NASEM, we talked about the 2 page guide about
    'open scholarhip.' but we talk about open work. EDUs are caste systems.
    and though evolving, still focused on journals, top tens, etc...

    i have friends in humanities and arts who don't put their work into those
    cubby-holes.

    My degree is in lib arts and media theory. Opening to designers and
    writers is very important.

    For science, or software, where do you see wins/challenges on brining in
    Scientists with a capital S, or Software Engineers with a Capital S?

Cat
    tremendous opptuinty in science education.
    in some cases, academic, but also arty!

    Anyone seen "dance your PhD?"

    Falling Walls foundation, doing work around th world, on science
    communication.

    in the sense tha topen source needs to be understood as having a breadth
    of opporunity for beyond CS and Technicians. Open Soruce needs to be
    expalined to the users who benefit. They can apprecaite the uility there
    for them.

    when I started, "community managere" didn't exist. Now it's a job, it's a
    field. Are there programs teaching that yet?

    the rise of internet and soxial media will amplify oppoutnity in non-eng
    non-science work.

Marie
    gonna return to mentoriship
    I have a degree in photography and graphic design.
    it wasn't in my life path, what cmented falling in love with open source
    and fedora, was a mentor. someone who said, 'this is a place for you. oyu
    belong here.' mentorhsip is invaluable. key to brining in diversly able
    people. I spend my time mentoring designers. I don't mentor in
    product/program management, I mentor designers. We're making it a 5 year
    goal to have eveyrone be am entor or have a mentor. We want to instill
    that culutre of mentorship to make it more stustainable, and diversify the
    roles we see.

Ana
    one of the resources in todo community is Education.
    we have 101 training guides on OSPOS and the desire is to expand that.

    many poeple in OSPOS have issues in describe the value in engaging in OS
    with teams that aren't in dvelopment. OS helps the entire industry. YOu
    need to convince legal, and marketing,a nd infuse the entire org with a
    clear undertsanding of open soruce. Educating marketers and designers, and
    legal people into opne source. They don't need to be devleopers, but they
    need to konw how to get involve din open source coummuintyes, and how to
    contribute back to OS communities.

    in the same org.

    my first degreee was marketing. Then I got into coding, and decided to
    build websites, then I got into python. this is a differnet point of view,
    and I did learn code, but I learned ou didn't need to learn code to get
    into OSS. I tell my marketing colleages how awesome it is in OSS, and how
    we need marketers, an how they can get involved without knowing how to
    program and code. They still are very cautious on that, and that mindset
    needs to be change, and only thorugh education and metnrisihop.

SJ
    SIliona spoke on role diversity. whether scholarhip, or software, role
    diversity leads to othe rdiversity. ou see it in the attendees here.
    Providing role diversity you get a bigger tent.

Zach
    it seeme d a common theme is abou trelatiohsips tha are built.
    Whats your commit? The lives in this room. The lives impacted.
    curious, for cat, how do you track your metircs of our comunity, and share
    the invisible stories?

cat
    I've been cheating this whole time :P
    because it's invitation only, somebody mentioned flying under the radar.
    larry page was the initial person who wanted to do this.
    Larry is no longer the CEO, nobody was going to tell him no ;)

    I needed to find exec support without getting on the radar.

    With exec sponsorhips, it's been airy-fairy.

    one company is successful and buys services. 
    funding of resarch bweteen atteneedds.

    how man nobel prize winners in the network cause poepl love them a nmobel.
    and very quiet. I encourage people to build it base don frinedship.

    Biz gets done on the basis of people who like eachother (bill joy)
    that's not all that's to it.

Marie
    we had our first Mentor Summit
    we have metrics on who attended and spoke, looking for growth nextyear
    badges are wawarded for mentorhsip. we have packge sponosrs, and
    ambassador mentors. we hvae badges fo routerach, and gsoc, an we use
    badges to measure that involvement.

Ana
    we hav ebasic metrics, and more for the participation. basic numbers, how
    engaged they are. Are they submtting issues? contributing PRs? How many
    reviewers do we have? How many repos have activities?

    This is typical metrics, nothing too special.

======
OSPOS in academia
======

Nolski
    had many people come up and talk about their experience.
    I'm a staff member. i don't teach. DOn't have a PhD.
    I'm a grad student.

    a lot of the work I do, is really focuse don the smaller day-to-day stuff.
    the community mangement. our team is premiarliy run by students. employees
    are students. Workign with faculty members to develop commujities around
    their rsearch they are developing. I do this by various ways of
    consulting. providing skills background by studnts in UX design, TEch
    writing, and software dev. Manage various software dev proejcts, that our
    office uses.

    CHAOSS project like grimoire lab for metrics. thinking about providin
    value.

Kendall Fortney
    started 4 months ago in Versa.
    used OSS libs. but tha't a tiny fraction of wha twe do.

    lecutring in design classes, and cs classes. sponsoring proejcs with the
    boston library. students are back in session, so hackathons an dsocial
    events. Documentation. outreach. Policy changes to promote open source.
    Work with office of innovation around tech licensince.

    and open science. What' sin place. what are metrics, and growing from
    there. at this point, and I know it'll change, that' swhere we are.

    hearing what eveyrone else is doing, that is very valuable.

    I googled, found Open@RIT, and the definition of "Open" rapidly expanded,
    and changed how i approached the problem.

Stephanie
    UCSC (santa cruz)
    been there since 2016
    would be remiss to not talk about what we did in 2016 before we started
    the OSPO, funded by Sloan.

    Center for reearch in oen soruce software, shich is separate.
    psosbily the UC write large.

    CROSS, for those who don't know us, that's where we got lots of experience
    we're building on now.

    Got started by Sage Wile, who created ceph, while a PhD. student. Gave
    grant to director, to create a situation where studnet soculd do wha the
    did: creating open source as a student that can get estalbihsed into
    successful.

    I wa sdoing day-to-dya, but creating communities areound  projects we
    suppot. We see the ospo, and working with industry partners, making
    sustainable. we raised 2.6M from industry, and saw how that was important
    to translate acitivites, and make more esustianable, and expand nad scale.

    what we realzed that somehting like an OSPO was something we needed to do
    to make it more cmapus wide. Tlaked to SJ and OSPO++, and decided this is
    the way we should go. The fact that we ewere in a reaserch center, we saw
    gaps that we could serve in industry/acadmic scollab.

    a movement towards an ospo, is about undertsand the value of open source
    to academia. To talk about the acitivies tha twe're doing, one in
    particular, we have an incubator program, similar to cORSS, to help
    post-docs create commnities.

    Oscar, working on polyform, visualizing the cosmo thorugh behavior of
    slime molds. Sounds strange to me as a social scientist, but what the
    community has done with those algos, is amazing. I'll post slides.

    and Embly Lowell(sp) looking to strengthen underserved portions of the
    open sourc epiepeline. we have a reearch expereince hevailby based on
    GSOC, and tha'ts tosmehting we want to expand thorughout the UC system. We
    have 4 cmapuses working with us, this wa our first year in multip-campus.
    There's more fnding, not just NSF.

SJ
    we've been joined by John Whelen at Trinity.
John
    My dog ran away, but I found her.
    at EDU of Dublin, we set up our OSPO about 2 years ago.
    talking to others in OSPOs, and we've been had one anyways.
    I work in Tech tranfer office. for many, we'd be the 'bad' people who are
    trying to police what is being done with IP. but I came from a startup
    background, and raised VC a few times in my own companies,a nd I was a
    programmer/dev, and knew the power of OSS.

    We had some spin-outs. Spun out first company out of Trninity, which was
    based on open sourc elicense. We allowed lots of reasesrch. Software Radio
    Systems is epxnading, doing lots of work in the US. Built the stack 12
    years ago. built our biz on open sourc.

    mission has alway sbeen to embrace OSS, and convince resarchers that tech
    tranfer undertand how to work with OSS.

    W ehave a duty to the resrach.
    you gotta be aware of the copyright versus copyleft, restrictive versus
    permissive. we spun out terminous X, a non-relational graph DB. We built a
    culture of wokring with reearchers.

    "as open as necessary"
    as open as cna be, be secure as necessary.

    we do lots of industry collabs. That's a key target at industry. Sometime
    sthey don't want to release, sometimes they do, increasingly so, and
    that's a brief summary.

SJ
    we've heard from John in TechTransfer.
    Open@RIT lives under auspices of VP of Research.
    Chris told us shes' often the only library person in th world.
    There's a ton of Libraries who are the presdiential reps!

    Around licensing and journls, the library has been 'the tip of hte spear'

Steph/kendall, where are yo instructure, how doe sthat change what you do?

Steph
    Engineering.
    we wanted to be in office of reserach.
    that's our ultimate goal.
    fitting betwene Tech transfer and research/developerment.
    we're still under office of research.

    we had intended to start quicker under research, but changes in personel
    has mad eit a bit slower.

Vermont
    we're cross connected between library and statistics

Stephanie
    one challenge Alluded to, what can happen in any org, impressed iwth UCSC,
    around changes in personel and champions within an org.
    we got our start in CROSS, and many were 'doubtful.' Concerns witihn
    academia. becuse of Ceph and the 2M, it was easier to get support. Our
    previous chancellor of reearch, he's moving up, we saw a bit of a change.
    It wasn't that we weren't getting support, or tech transfer office is very
    supportive, but it was starting at square one about where we were going.

    "this wasn't as much of a shoe-in as wethought"

    Stovepiping. The way different depts don't intermix.
    my EDU is not alone in this.

    Outreach to say, 'some places don't see themselves doing open work' it's
    been harder to reach out with interdisp than expected. We're getting
    there. WE're having larger symposium, idea is to bring in other UCs.

    thos ea rechangelllenges. Getting thw ord out, finding th epoeple we need
    to find.

Vermont
    UofV has been great to talk to.
    I've spoken to about 60 people across 7 of the colleges. All the offices.
    they are all engaged. "this is grea, glad you're here! Wish you were her
    sooner!"

    not being a person who's done PhD, undertanding funding an dmoney, all
    thoe things tie into the sustainability of the program.
    I can find people who are willing ot put in energy, but need larger
    systesm to work well to last more than a year.

    2nd part, the idea of the inclusion part. Having worke dat startups, I
    know how those cultures can be bad. My background is in Fine arts, not
    computer science. open is more than writing cod.e My job was as a product
    managemer, and that is somehting that we need in OSS>

    Breaking down barriers of self-exclusion, and mkaing it comforatable and
    ieasy to join is something we can all do better it, and an element we're
    tackling.

Nolski
    I would echo all the things you said.

    Challenges
    htinking back to the things discussed in the first meting today. Policy
    challenges ar e alarge thing. Where are the challenges we face on the
    'ground' level? I've been really lucky to have a chance to talk to so many
    faculty. We're fairly large.

SJ
    19K students
    2K faculty/staff

Nolski
    I went to RIT, thi sis my almamater.
    in this role, ihave an opporutniy to talk about their experienc,e an what
    open means to them. why they do it, whey they don't do it.

    faculty have like, 6 different jobs.

    Yes, yo uteach.
    but ou readsarch
    and curriculum
    and grant funding
    and committee meetings
    and grading

    you have all these differne tjobs, evaluate dfor all, and all competing.

    all faculty are being pulled in many directions. They love every bit of
    it. THye love teaching an dresearching.

SJ
    nobody loves grading

NOlski
    maybe committees too :P

    most see virtue in sharing, but terrified of the committment.
    the factor of burnout in open source and ocmmunity.
    that has been the biggest hurdel.
    figuruing out how to lower that burden, so that these things are rsoursrcd
    properly by EDU, or rwiting into the grant funding fo rreaesarch. teaching
    people what to write, and who to hire fo rit. Seeing that process thoruhg
    to the end.

    one of biggest things we've done, is fellowship program for growing Open
    Source communities. It's been a rollercoast,er but big impact of that, had
    a proejct that came to us. "we want our digital humantieis project to
    bemore accessible" we had this immensely talente dteam of designers,
    full-design process, interviews, 50 slide deck on all the recommendations
    on the work they did.

    we handed off, and they were like "OMG, how are we going to do all this
    work"

    They got a grad student (me) who got college credit to implement it.

    When talking to them, it clicked. The steps in the process. how oyu can
    reseource people to do those htings, in a handholding way.

    it's very resoruce intensive, but it's worth it.


John
    Everything is challenges, and it's good to learn from eachother, but don't
    want to be too negative.

    Key challenges of educatoin. coming from Tehc/Knowledge, it's not our job
to educate reserachers. They are the teachers and lecturers. It's difficult to
explain. They use open source, but don't udnerstand complexities and risks. To
build that trust and mutual respect to listen to what we're saying. We tried
to expain our IP policy, but it's still difficult sometimes. It's not
something you can just 'explain' I'm not a lawyer, theyre not lawyers, and we
have to explain it still. Try to explain the challenges. See researchers put
up projects on the internet, fro free, but with no licenses. We had a US
company come to us for a license for something they downloaded, and relized
tha twe still held the IP. But that's a practical thing that happened.

I can talk, EU centric. The Eurpiean Union spends billions of euros on complex
agreements, that don't deal with open source proeprely. They try, but they
don't use the language that everyone is used to. It would solve, there's like
5M projects, and there'd be 10-20 partners, all working together, but how to
do you manage the IP? Open SOurc eis a great vehicle for that, but not common
in the EU Commission. They're slow to implement those changes.


    biggest problem I have each month. SOmebody comes, you've asked them "our
    software disclosure asks 'please list the open source software in yoru
    proejcts' and they're doing IP diligence, and find some GPL and copyleft
    in there. that can be fine to get swapped out, but, where does that become
    a problem. thats a biggest problem. When has copyleft contaminated the
    system? Is it when it's compliled into the code? is it LGPL linked? it's
    hard to give a straight answer, before they go to IP due diliigence.
    Should they swap out the GPL, or are they ok?

    We come up against that problem all the time. I know there are software
    solutions, but hte reports are very complex, and need consultancy form the
    vendro to understand what it means.

    There's a specific challenge.


SJ
    creative commons license, there's a couple simple queisons:
        do you want people to reuse it?
        do you want people to commercially use your work?

    problems with software in particular, as was alluded to, there are a lot
    of different licenses. What happens in softare, poeple pull different
    chunks, and make new things out of them.

    'bricolage' is what you might call it in humanties.

    Different parts may say different things.

    some ssay 'you gotta distribute the software in editable changable' versus
    the program you run.

    there are many shades of grey.


    When poeple don't pay atntion, and fuse it into a new program that runs.
    taking clay from differnet places, and form a hardened object.

    That's where that compliance piece comes in.

    This peice says "you can do whatever you want"
    this peice says "you gotta distribute the source"

    what do we do?

    Makes sense?

    That's the problem we talk about.

    Copyleft license - everything is sharable and must be shared.

    this is achallenge in the research world.

    there are software packages and human consultancies to look at and help
    untangle the knot. Sometimes they do better or worse jobs.

Vermont
    having done this at companies, understanding liability, yeah.

SJ
    leads into 'whether your academic OSPO is responsible for compliance'

Cat
    we have poeple in the US Govt who are workign on this issues, creating a
    Software Bill of Materials.
    coming up with standards to do it.

Vermont
    so far, we haven't done compliance, no

UCSC
    we work closely with office of research.
    we have specific people within the EDU with legal expertise.
    Our faculty have learned to cme to us with the quetion, so, kind of yes,
    but we still point them to the lawyer.
    we have a great adv board, that does include lawyers.
    we let people in tech transfer know what the opionis are. We're not hte
    deciding factor.

Vermont
    explaining what licenses are to faculty, not just 'use this one' but 'here
    they are.'

Nolski
    Omidyar, with Deimos, 'open roads report'

    they talk about the dichotomy between open in liability, and open in terms
    of virtue. Taking about program sna doffices and orgs, doing open, but in
    these two groups: either secure supply chain, or releasing products that
    aren't compromoised by licenses.

    ther are other orgs interested in Open as a Virtue. Thinking about doing
    things openly because it's a core part of our organizatoin, and educating
    people how to do it.

    "each ospo is it's own thing"

    that's true, open as liabaility, is often the same acitiies, do same work
    as virtue, but doing it in different ways.

    we landed on one side, but if you're thinkinga bout starting your org
    witin your org, thinking about what side you want to be on, and what sort
    of parts of hte instutition would be focused.

SJ
    to amplify a bit, we have a 'best practices' section of the website.
    we can't tell anyone to do anything.
    nobody can tell faculty to do anything ever, as I seaid :P

    we recommend certain licenses, not just for software, but hardware, and
    creative commons, and many other things. We can't tell you what to choose,
    but we can recommend. We'r enot grying to limit what oyu do. YOu are often
    told to setup an LLC to protect yourself legally, whter music or art, you
    cannot be held liable when things go wrong. Sometimes people gravitate
    twoards that explanation.

Vermont
    some licenses are recognized as more common than others.
    The new 'ethics' licenses, is a whole new world. it starts a new convo.

SJ
    Jflory is involved in that world, I ask him when I have questions.

Q:
    this morning we heard people doing open work in EDU are balancing between
    power sources. Admin top, and grassroots below.
    what about faculty senate, student gov, student unions, that kind of
    thing.

Steph
    we haven't had as much interaction with student orgs. WE've worked with
    cruz hacks, focused on undergrads. Open SOUrce reaeserach experienc
    eproram is undergrads.

    we come from the top, working in faculty advisors int he school of
    engineering, hopeing that will expand (CROSS)

    on the ospo side, we're focusing on incubator project, with post-docs.
    we look for faculty who have open source porjects.

    we have focus on research, and vice chancellor, to get politcal support.
    We've had good luck.

    Moving forward, as we focus more on biulding tools for students, and
    helping them build more tools using more open source, will focus on
    undergrad. Mostly faculty, postdoc, and amdin for now.

Vermont
    my beginning was just before end of session. just getting bck into school,
    and hoping to connect with them. My approach, making sure to talk to
    faculty before oign in. Goal is to not have them not know who I am.

    If you don't know me, it won't be as relevant, and hoping to build that so
    that I can go into the meetings with recognition.

Nolski
    first obvious things is curriculum.
    SJ has done an amzing job devleping undergrad curriculum for multidisp.

    There was this aweosme person, who was working at at RIT running programs
    back then. Back then, prorams were purely on studnet population. It was
    the nature of our fneding, and the focus has been on research.

    curriculum was special, but doing undergrad, ther was a susstantial
    community tha was not cnetered around the curruiculum. It was an automnous
    student comunity, not a club, but a network of hackers, discovering things
    themselves, that faculty were learning from.

    that was a special thing.

    What are we doing for students? are we resoruces? Are we provivind
    dedicated infra? A dedicated human to provide the center of gravity.

    If there's a center, but organizing in any community, you need a manager
    that focuses on it all day long. I've seen a lot of funding coming about
    for 'we want researchers working together" and some stuff on 'curriculum'
    but a thing I don't see very often is about creating student communities,
    the same way we build open soruce communities in academic instutitons.

John
    I think we all realize that EDUs, and a 430 year old institution is often
    dysfunctional when it come to governances. We have the IP policy, and
    that's an important document. That' swhere we deal with Open Soruce.
    Anytime mentioned in the past 10 years, it's been in our document, which
    is approved by various committees. WE update every 5 years, and it's been
    going through various committeses, approved by board, the governing body.

    it's painful, but it's then 'cast in stone' and what we say about open
    source is the policy officieally, and we can alway srefere to it.

    we say we are friendly, and we support it, but there are cases based on
    fundeing, when it's been funded, we need to be consious of some potential
    risks.

    reminds me of another point.

    Challenge with Open Science and Open Access and Open Soruce are very
    related, but they are not quite the sam ethings. There are important
    differences. Poeple hear "open" and they think open access. The big
    funding agencies have said science should be open, and they htink that
    everyting should be open.

Stephanie
    what mike talks about, focusedon research impact.
    Our incubator project, and other projects, is focusing on creating more
    curriculum. which you do well at RIT. We're focusing on that, and since
    we've started the process. creating courses around the incubator proejcts,
    and following earlier courses we had, workign on oepn source programming.
    that's been a huge push. not just CSE, but computational media, and
    borader reach within undergrad community.


SJ
    if/when we want to convert our policies, it goes through academic and
    student council approval.

Karsten
    I know in CROSS, one of my fav hacks, UC isfamous for licnesing.
    Here at Trinity, formlized policy.

    How has policy helped/hindered your work?

Steph
    we have written open source into our sponsorship agreement.
    between industry and researcher at UCSC. It's worked for us, and hope to
    broaden out to rest of UC. We itend to open source anything that comes out
    of this grant. This is what we intend for other reaesarchers.

    This intention is enough for industry often.

    TEch Transfer folk are very willing to work with us, and they came up with
    that language we use.

Vermont
    tech transfer is on our Adv board, and they are excited.
    it's better to get the work out and used, and to get it out there and used
    is more important.

    brining convo around licenseing earlier inoto th work, so that by the end,
    they already know they are going to share it.

    that's part of the understnaidng we're creating. that will change the env,
    making that be part of convo early.

Nolski
    RIT has a lax policy, where students own their own IP
    it hasn't been restrictive for us.

John
    Irish EU law, employer owns IP, but for students, except for grad
    students. If they get a stipend, we own their IP. That's a gov policy.

    at a high level, its a polarization of society. between 'left' and 'right'
    people get polarized, they are both very valuable. Not to get too
    esoteric, at a highl evel that's where it stands. trying to bridge the
    gap.

=====
what do we need to manage infomration overload and ferment in academic open
work?
=====

Elizabeth Vu, Sloan
    we fund basic research, sciences, social soecines, and econimcs.
    we tink cross discipline, to level researchers. The ools they use, and how
    they use thoese tools.

    in terms of personal history, recovering academic with a phd in biological
    oceanography. lived experience with open source software, and building
    teams that build open soruce sofater.

Reyya El Zain, code for science and society
    recovering acadmic with dregree in theature and perfomrance studeis.
    my work, whether in artists or techologies, how can we catalyze change.
    Digital Infrastructure Incubator is what we manage, help think about
    community engagemend and design.

    what do we do with the info we got today, and how do we move from here.

Intros

Liz
    Thinking about doing a 'mapping' or similiarity analysis of 'where open
    work flourishes within institutional structures.'

    I heard, "imortanc eof having the VPR involve dint he formation an
    dmarketing" and thought about what that says about certain power
    structures.

    another thing I heard about the library, was about open innovation center,
    and aligning the mission of the EDU.

    draw from what you heard, or your experience, on what you might think is
    the factors are in those structures that lend well to doing open work.

Reyya
    3-5 minutes depending on what you hear.

    you talked about your roles in OSPOs and 'translating' between tech and
    biz. Here, ou're translating between.


Group feedback 1
    talkign about timescale differences between academia, indstry, and
    governemtn. What amount of time is needed to konw when something to be
    successful?

Gropu feedbck 2
    talked about how it's and exciting time with the new policies that have
    come out in federal governement.

Gropu feedback 3
    who our audience is, as a landgrant org?
    we're focused on public good.
    UCSC, audience is the californiapepople. that's who we envision we serve.

Group feeback 4
    discussion we had here, old saing "don't study history, you're boudn to
    make same mistakes?" HOw did we end up getting here? Opening up something
    tha tis closed? How did we get there?

    Lack of incentives
    
    goals of scientific community has been overwhelmed.
        i need phd students
        if I have 10,students, each has 10 students under them.
        math speaks for itself.

    new incentives to measure progress
        not helpful to the result

    opening up everything won't solve the issues. Whta is the objective of
    scientific reeaesrch? Who are working for? What is result expected from
    our work?

    and adding one thing, we got into the pickle we're in, because we're
    humans and self-interesed. what i think we want, spekaing for myself, is
    to be better science, broadly. Maybe not having the individual erserachers
    be the focus, but do whats better for the research enterprise writ large.


Thnak you Aeva. thank you SJ and Mike. Thanks for your participation.


SJ
    design of tomorrow is to give opporutity to talk more, with common
    econtext.

    Strong is only 10 minutes away, and we'll continue tomorrow.

    Thanks for your time today.
