After this, 2 social events. Scholars bistro, 7-9. At FSF office hacking
alcohol free session. Both will be available via red line. We'll end here at
6:30.


2 of the 4 prizes have not been claimed.

GNU FSF Bundle


500 060
500 412


I want to thank my good friend Eben Moglen, of over 20 years. I want to thank
him for speaking earlier. He is one of the pillars of Free Software Movement.
Sometimes we've disagreed on the details, but we agree fundamentals.

He led the team of lawyers, and international team, that checked over every
phrase, and the public process to place criticism. He wrote some passages, and
discussed nearly every word.

The SFLC provides probono legal services, and the Freedombox foundation,
makes it possible to run a Free Software personal server at home. We all Owe
Eben a big thank you, so please join me.


I want to criticize a couple of talks. "Trumps America" he may wish this
country were his property, but it's not so.

One of of those details I disagree with Eben, is the "age" of Trump.

They assign to him a bigger victory to him than he had. We are not defeated.
It's not "trump's" anything. I call him the troll, or cheater, or liar, or
loser. He actually lost the electoral college to if you counted the million+
people who were kept out from voter suppression.

Even though he has no heart, we still need to apply to "de-fib-rillator" to
him. 

LOLOL

We need to keep reminding people what we're fighting for, so they don't got
forgot. Open Source doesn't do that. We want to escape from Non-free software.
Even this computer has a disk drive in it that has non-free software, and we
have to live with that, but we shouldn't have to. Even when we compromise and
deal with intolerable things, that is a fight we have to win someday.

Even as we coexist with our adversary, the forces of subjection, we have to
remember that they are our adversary. We will have to deal with them, and
throw off their power.

Crucial to this, is a non-free program, is an injustice. Snooping on the user
is an injustice. Sometimes non-free program, sometimes through internet
dis-service, sometimes cameras in the streets.

The adkar(sp) system in India is even built with Free Software! Using
computers for voting is another. You cannot trust a computer, to know whether
the election authority is using the computer fraudulently.

We must compromise, but in careful ways. We must tolerate in ways that can
lead us to fighting them in the future.

Now.

We.

Need to

Uh.

Fight the fight against big data when it's about personal data about people.
We have to go to great links to refuse to give data. Yes, it is inconvenient
sometimes. If you are focused on convenience, it'll look like a sacrifice. It
will start to look like the store is the sacrifice if you focus on the
freedom. You won't have to steel yourself against the resistance, if you came
this far.

A well meaning friend tried to get me something, and she ordered from Amazon.
She told Amazon to send it to my address. To me, she had doxed me to Amazon. I
would never think of doing that to myself. When you learn to value your
freedom, and privacy, and anonymity, it gets easy to insist on them.

There is no way we can protect ourselves from the abuse of prescription data
for medicine. We can campaign to keep that data strictly unavailable to anyone
else.

When it comes to big data, often we see the wrong approach being followed by
mainstream on Human Rights orgs. They want to put limits on the use of the
data. When a hero is designated as a spy or traitor, the gov will always
authorize itself to use that data to capture the hero.

I'm speaking of Edward Snowden.

Three Cheers for him.

Hip Hip Hooray
Hip Hip Hooray
Hip Hip Hooray


The Privacy rules only inhibited the commercial use of ISP data, not even the
collection. 

The only data that is safe, is the personal data that wasn't collected. Once
collected, it will be misused. Government, Company, Rogue Employees. Abused by
Thieves that steal it from the collector (don't call them hackers, please.)

You can tweak the level of danger about when it will be used, but all it takes
is one terrorist act to throw out those rules, but they cannot retroactively
collect data they didn't have.

We need to require it so that

GNU.org/philiosophy/surveilalncvsdemocracy.html


People are making great progress in software to modify the parameter of the
neural network to get different results. Recognizing an ear against a nose,
while doing the same things we did.

We can tweak the parameters, as source code! This makes things easier, the
training data to get a set of parameters, may be impossible to distribute at
all. Modifying the parameter set, can help us modify the set of the trained
parameters with free software.

One of the vital things we need to do. I did a grep, and it is giving me a
gigantic amount of output from my mail.

One of the vital jobs to do, is reverse engineering. We're doing more to
encourage people to do it. You gotta be clever to do it.

We posted a list of high-prio reverse engineering tasks, which is parallel to
our main list:

fsf.org/reverseengineering

We're looking for people to improve the software to do reverse engineering.
There isn't a free decompiler yet. To recognize those that do it, we plan to
give out a medal from time-to-time. We don't have one now, but when someone
does this, we'll recognize it in this special way.

Since we're going to give out the Free Software Awards eventually, we want you
to nominate someone today. Give your nominations.


I recently read an article about Free trade ebooks. But there are 3 injustices
in normal ebooks. 3 Evils/Problems

DRM
EULA
tracking the buying

We need to be able to buy anonymously. taler.net is a GNU project that helps
with this.

Another threat that we find is that the internet of stings, untrustworthy
devices that are fundamentally no good, turns out to have poor security in
the classical sense. Free Software doesn't guarantee security, but many have
fully crap security, with no intention of patching. There is a consideration
for a universal backdoor for adding security patches by law. That cure is
worse than the disease, but it's a really problem.

Suppose all the software in the internet related part of the device, it has to
be published, and it has to have a security update service. Initially, it can
be the default one, or you can change to an alternate service. You freedom can
be respected, and security protected this way.


We are looking at changing the license of gnu lib c in a subtle way.
Currently, LGPLv2 or GPLv3. We're thinking of making it Gplv2 or LGPLv3. This
will help clarify enforcement, but shouldn't make a big difference in what
programs are allowed to link with glibc.

We want to do as much as possible to verify there will be no problems, so we
are asking people to look at this issue, and we're going to post about it.
We're hoping that folks with legal minds, or knowledge of use-cases, can verify
that nothing will break from this.

In regard to privacy, I'm looking for people with impressive credentials, who
would like to join me in proposing to legislators that we need stronger
measures to stop measures to collect data, not just privacy policies. That is
the case with laws, that often the only thing that is required is maneuvering
a user to give consent. Talk with that person, and put her in touch with me
rms@fsf.org, and we can talk about working together.

Another place we have a big battle, is JavaScript. Many websites won't
function without non-free JavaScript. I was posting on my personal websites,
petitions, but they wouldn't run without it. I convinced a few sites to change
this, and now I can post and recommend, but we still have problems with
Salsalab. If you have contact with them, or orgs that use them, please try to
use that influence.

This is not limited to petitions. The register of copyrights, decided to make
everyone register over again, over the DMCA take-down provision. Previous
registrations would be thrown out en masse, and registration requires non-free
software. That is particularly ironic, but there are plenty of other bad
cases too. We need tog et that JavaScript freed, or convince the sites to work
without JS, or develop replacement free JS. A web extensions front-end that
will run in Firefox or Chromium, or other things someday, that would talk to
the server, but turn of the server running JavaScript.

I should point out that web assembly changes nothing. It doesn't matter if
they are are obfuscating minimized code--equivalent to compiled code. If you
are good at JavaScript code, please write to me.

When the site allows putting free licenses on the code, I know of programs
that generate free code, but we know it comes out of a free repository. They
can do that. Write to me if you want to do that.

And

At this point.

I'm going to give out the Free Software and Social Benefit awards. Can I have
the first award

The 2016 award for advancement goes to a true champion of Free Software. He's
contributed to programs like gcc, but has also called attention to freedom via
distribution of Linux Libre--a version without non-free firmware. He's
liberated paying tax in Brazil. The government imposes running a non-free
program to file taxes, but not anymore! In many years they get the updated
version of the free program, before the official non-free program.

Alex:
    This is too good to be true.
    I want to thank Richard. I first met GNU in 91, just before Linux was
    published. I met and fell in love at first sight. I met Richard 5 years
    later, and it changed my life. The ethical and social aspects of
    technology were more important that what I had learned before. I didn't
    have a choice, and I had to work on that from that point on. I was never
    sure that what i was doing was right, because I'm so insecure. This award
    means alot because it means that something i was doing was right. That our
    message....

    Huge applause, sanding ovation

    That the message this guy taught me, was right.

    I want to thank Richard. And my colleagues at FSF Latin America. The GNU
    hackers that started GNU, and the other that created this great operating
    system. Linux Libre collaborators like Jason Selfry(sp)

    My managers at Red Hat, who never gave me any trouble being a Free
    Software Hacker, while making a living.

    I want to thank the FSF for being the Lighthouse, as Snowden put it, so
    appropriately. I want to also thank my lifepartner, my wife, and my
    daughter, who have been my supporters and partners in this life. My
    daughter will carry it on, and someday, talking here too, as happy as I am
    right now. Thank you so much.

RMS
    The social benefit award goes to a project that is tremendously important
    in regards to issues of security and control of the state. It's
    Palantir--oh no, that is a mistake--you might say the opposite, but not
    exactly. A program that makes it safer to be a whistleblower. If we don't
    know what the government is doing, we can't control what it does. That is
    what democracy is. We need to make it safe to be a whistleblower. This is
    why it is so dangerous to allow the state to track where people go and who
    talks to whom, because they can find the whistleblowers. And we don't have
    many of those. The program is called secure drop, and I'd like to give
    this award.

    Conor Shafer(sp). I work for Freedom of the Press Foundation. We feel very
    strongly that an obstinate and cantankerous press keeps society safe and
    secure. Secure and anonymous communication is more important today than
    ever before. Investigative journalists and their sources are some of the
    most vulnerable. Securedrop is the result of free software developers in
    the journalism and technology communities.

    Thank you to the FOSS community, and the FSF in particular. We couldn't do
    this without you. Keep fighting the good fight.

RMS
    So I guess we're done for the day?


John Sullivan
    We'll now head to the social events for the night.
    We'll be leading people out of the lobby in about 10 minutes.

RMS
    I forgot to mention, GNU.org/help is a place where you can find the jobs
    suitable to your skills.
