Eben Moglen


I'm sure you didn't really expect that there was going to be a swell of
orchestral music with backlighting, and shadow rising again over the morning.

We ought to begin in the normal conversational way.

So, we still don't need the shadow has fallen over Mordor stuff, we're still
in conversational mode, but lets take a moment to understand our problem.


1/5 of humans live under the communist party of China. The purpose of the net,
is to prevent the ideas of freedom/democracy, rule of flaw, from existing.

1/5 another live in India democracy. The sometimes frightening liberal regime
will set generational policy for the next largest society.

China has more hardware building capacity than the rest of us. It is
controlled, and has the largest pop in the world combined.

The next decades of our lifetimes, that the Indian model became the Chinese
model. That is something rapidly thinking about developing itself. Having a
biometric ID platform for all Indian citizens, and moving at a break-neck pace
towards cashless society.


Jack Moss PM, the china using post-modern monitored economy with Chinese
characteristics, and would be a perfect platfrom for despotization of human
race.

We're one generation of production away from that, with new communist party
of next year.


The EU of the world, is holding the values of the free world, but in a
paralyzed position. In which, disturbingly illiberal tendencies.

The nature of the possible regimes controlling end of 2017, poses problems as
dark as the end of 1847. We're at the cusp of a very difficult moment.


And the pres of the US, has no respect for constitutional Democracy or rule of
law.

IN 1985, dismissing the billion dollar lawsuit against the writers of the
Chicaog Tribuine. When I was a genuinely young lawyer, I learned a lot of DJT
then. In March of last year, my 84 year old mother said "I always thought you
were paranoid about DJT..."


This is one of the most dangerous men on earth, and now he's one of the most
powerful, and I speak from careful intelligence on the matter.

We're at the place for which the FOSS movement exists. This is what motivated
a group of young people to take the design of operating, for this. This
possibility, to add, to the political propositions, that the telecomms
networks, are now behavior collection networks. A cube of cheese on the giant
mousetrap. The regulators are not up on this.


The long process of regulating prices, has ceased to be what we care about.
But the govs, even well affected, care about is the management of behavior
collection networks. We want to understand how the conduct of the public goes.
We're the ones with the longest thinking on this.

Our attitude on it was just sinking on. We've done lots of designing, and
hacking, and using, largely from that supposition---with respect to tracking,
monitoring, etc... That the human system is built upon now.

Our "just say no"-ness wasn't about saying no, it was about building a
universe of technology of saying no. Building not just tech, but the legal
technology secondarily. That purpose was to protect the idea that users have
rights. The purpose of the secondary tech, law, and all the tertiary, the
government, to keep industry comfortable about the licensing to use the
code--the primary purpose, was to ensure users actually had rights.

Even in our early sci-fi way, we were pursuing tightly the public policy point
you can make to everyone; users should have rights. We've positioned
ourselves as experts as what rights users to have rights means, and what those
answers are. Copyleft, and GNU, and a series of philosophical and ethical
positions. They weigh more that what the world has sense.


Drinking from the firehose, most of the worlds users, and decision-makers, to
uncompromising for those in the social structures, because there are real
impediments to the nature of their business, their livelihoods, dependencies
they've built...

All my life doing this, it has been a pleasure to see ourselves doing this,
and seeing eachother. In the last couple of years, we've watched the world
come to a crisis. We can't do a whole awful lot. Though the thing we're
dealing with, the scale of it has escaped our ability to deal with it.


What can we do? What can we really do about a mess this big. In terms, this is
where we are. In the teachable moment in our history of the movement, there
are more people receptive to the idea that users of tech have rights. Why
those rights are pivotal to the survival of political liberty is larger than
ever.

It began with Snowden, but that is comparatively small in scale, to the global
anxiety of tech savvy young people. Society slipping out of control to their
own immediate disservices, and things they are a part of that they know are
not right. They feel it about Facebook, and Twitter, and the deliberative
quality of the world is falling apart, but not knowing how they are
contributing. They know they are trying to buy the happy music of "privacy is
over" "if you're not doing anything bad, don't worry" "If you don't mind the
ads, then the service is so convenient!"

The know something is wrong with it, and they want something that isn't as
desperate as the red pill. Giving up everything you've ever known and done to
fight the matrix. They don't want to wake up in that movie either.


"What can we do before we otherwise get wiped out."

We're in the world we thought we'd be. When we used Slavery, it was metaphor.
When machines you cannot modify control you and everyone else.


2 thought experiments. Not just what we can.

What would happen if you woke up and Google decided to replace the kernel on
android with a permissive one like Fuschia. The Free Software content would
have remained the same. But the loss of copyleft in the kernel, in the only
mobile system you can use safely, means you cannot use it safely. They would
lose any rights they had at the bottom of that stack.


The situation would be the same... but that one is close. That is not that
further off. Let's leave that for another day


Another experiment:
    you live in a community run by Chinese communist party, all payments are
    cashless and electronic. Your citizen rating determines how fast you get
    deliveries, and what tickets are available to you to travel with.

    I know, black mirror does this to us all the time, why bother us with
    this, right????


It doesn't feel like that. It feels like inconvenience. If it adjusted
subconsciously, it would be more convenient. Despotism works efficiently at the
citizen rating level.

This too.... is very close.

What can we do to prevent being wiped out...


Near to here, it doesn't feel like the last war. What is the point of being at
war? With it being M$, that was one thing.

What about when it's China, and Europe, and Trump?

Confrontation is useless

Positive engagements

1) Save copyleft. The undertaking that users have rights, in tech, in some
defined way, available to the rule of law, and vindication---under broad
social consensus that this is the way to do it---it's almost broken now. We
have a number of govs that have discriminated against copyleft. I've had this
happen in NSF, DARPA, and others. In FSFE, same problems in Europe too. We
must justify copyleft to gov, and industry, and true, it is not at its best.
This is the conceptual tool for explaining that users have rights, and we can
make those rights effective, and have those structures respected around the
world. Even in places where it's disregarded. China is against copyleft for
the wrong reasons, but eventually, they'll find the right ones...

2) We have the freedom to tinker. We need to prove that running code for
ordinary people for political change. If we can deliver freedom in tech, they
will adopt tech freedom as their own, and advance it as their own. If we don't
deliver to them, then we are alone, and it doesn't work for them. If you are a
townhall, you need to have a single-board system. If you are organizing for
the minority party in Paris, it has to exist, and be ready to go. This is
central operational work for the movement right now. It is Free Software in
configured forms, and getting out of the way and letting them use it. Using it
is the lesson that means the most.

We have engagements around the world that we need to be careful about
diplomatically. The Indian supreme court has been kicking around the can on
deciding the bench that has the citizens with privacy from their government.
We need to get it established, and then get it to win. We need to work on the
implementation of people's rights in national service provision. Not just open
APIS, but free code. This is one of the biggest tasks with the biggest
governments. We need to treat it the same as if it was in the white people's
back yards.

We can engage with over a question: What is your biggest problem right now?
That Google, or your own secret police?

The yearning that has been hiding behind the national security establishments
in 20 years, attribution of every human action, is within spitting distance.
intra-ethnic antagonism rising in many societies, the yearning becomes more
effective in everyone's governments. ThE two largest govs, capitalize on that.
Surveillance capitalism companies do that in their own interests.

We can engage with the EDU systems of the world. We need to provide ways to
teach about these issues in middle school through higher ed. We cannot
prohibit their use, but we need to provide material to copy modify and share.
It means slowing down tech development--programmers writing docs. But we must
document the process and the flossophy. We need Richard's voice more. We need
to put forward  a series of ideas in an accessible condition, in the same way
we need to put our bits into peoples hands in an operable condition.

They need to see our freedom as operable.

We must be careful not to destroy any coalitions. This is not the time to be
in our "purist" moods... we are too small, and what we have to say is too
important. We are dealing with people we don't like, because the world is run
by people we like even less.

We're not centralizers. Everything we do needs to be done mostly by ourselves.
We need to be finding the neighbors, and finding out what tech they need.

I was really proud of a lawyer I trained who went out to JFK during the first
executive order crisis, and she got there, and they needed someone to make the
WiFi to work, and the printers to operate. The Georgia Tech part, not the
Columbia law part, was the part needed at the airport that day.

We need to deliver bits, branded as Free Software, to bring to the party. We
need to be documenting the philosophy, preferably understandable for an 8th
grader, in the way a highschool CS curriculum could discuss it.

My nephew was in a magnate program for CS/Math. He spent a whole day hearing
about what RMS and I had done. Computer Science said I was now important.

Documenting what we thought, not just the code, is what matters.

My book I'm writing now is for someone 75 years from now. If I have one thing
to offer, of value, at 2090, may be the location of a thing that is hidden to
you. A thing that most of us in the 20th century cared about, that we
struggled and died for.

We called it freedom.

(Thunderous applause)


The purpose of that was so we could have questions:


I can bring mic, or line up down there.


Q: I want to thank you for addressing that it needs to be in education. I use
tech to teach women and preschoolers. Tech moves slowly in EDU, so please,
provide tech and help them use it. My question, do you have advice for dealing
with the political slowness of Education system. We're still implementing 2-5
year old tech. The purpose grows, but adoption is slow.

A: We watched that thinking about Free Software was important even without
computers. It wasn't that you cannot use Emacs without a computer, children
want to understand tech as a thinker in the world. The learning that is going
on, not just iPad versus Chromebooks, isn't just about the ideas. The reverse
of the method. If you ask Page what he thought about AI, he was "we're going
to roll out services, and then let people decide." People are adjusted to not
thinking about ethics. If we jump the bar, and make them think before they
build. Technology is always changeable. I don't like things that don't let me
change the background color. I know there is a lot to be done with the idea
first. You don't need to give technology to teach about it.

Q: Big Data, and AI< and ML. What I see in my research, there is an inordinate
amount of money being poured into it. They want to personalize what they give
you. They cross-reference against the dataset of everyone else. When you have
turnkey totalitarianism, you get a centralized system, that can be changed at a
later point in time. What do we do with big data?

A: Depends on who we are, and what we do.

One is getting interested in copyleft data licensing. That will not solve
problems, but can contribute to a solution. It would diminish the urge to
collect more data because you then have to share with your competitors. They
want the edge that used to come from proprietary in 20th century...

With ML, we have a challenge with licensing. I get calls, almost always MIT
Grads, Have you thought about how the license is not as important for the code
than the data? See above.

Third. What are we going to do about the question of "public rights" in
behavioral collection? It is a problem of Govs looking in the wrong place.
They want environmental regulation, but the telecoms are a disaster. The
behavioral conduct you're talking about, the unethical research, the human
subject barriers... good luck to you.

The age of Trump, the FCC to get out of the business of behavior collection
regulation, is a devastating decision. When I talked with Clinton transition
team, they were tasking the opposite question. How the FTC and FCC can work
together better. We get a gov that retreats to not even being the night
watch. We need to work on it in Belgium, and then India and the US.
Environmental rightness, extraction of coal is not any better than extracting
coal. Some will be researchers, some will be surveillance capitalists, and
some, I say this without reservation, the worst governments in the history of
humanity.

Q: is this a "get your ass in gear"
A: Diplomatic optimism is part of my nature as much as darkness. Freedombox,
like any project, when people are investing in our development, we made the
Debian freeze. Now you can just click a box. We have a teachable moment. The
audience waiting for us is bigger than any we've see in the theatre.


Q: the main lesson from Arab Spring was that tech would help to tear down
Institutions, but not build them. You see the lack now. When I look at Trump,
if we tear down institutions, it may be worse than having no institutions.

A: we have gotten out of that. We do build things with Free Software. We're
always going to places to where there is proof of concept and running code,
that is the exit mark of this situation. If we didn't do what we do--political
model that says build first, then give it to people to build their world. What
is happening with the urgency is making it pretty. We cannot afford to be
purists anymore. We need to build public support for freedom right now. They
are suffering right now. And need help right now. It's going to get worse,
before it gets better. Our social constructivist politics keep us out of this
hole.

A: We need to do 2 things: Future and Peesent. We in the present need to be
there for allies. We have an attractive thing, not just chocolate at bedtime.
The ability to hide from centralized spying. That is the job of delivering
software. We need a more than adequate quickstart doc.

Then we need to get to the younger generation. The "Snowden" generation, who
were born at the beginning of the 21st century. They look different
psychographically. If we have bits for them that have shiny packages, that
include Freeedom. We were there for servers in the 20th century. We're 2
product cycles out. Android will be an enclosed system with a closable kernel.
We'll have to do consumer ed for stuff that doesn't exist yet for that....

Thank you.
Very much.
