One can one love one's work...


by the end of her career, she understood how her work would impact millions
and billions of people. I'm going to talk about the burdens we carry as
technologists.

I'm going to focus on politics. Narrowing our focus to politics, we can focus
on 2 things: Automation and news media.


Automation
    the economy is changing. That's nothing new. Millions of people. Thousands
    of bizz's. Hundreds of countries.
    Social movements, discoveries, natural disasters all play a role in the ever changing landscape.
    So much of our live depend on the economy. 
    healthcare. Education. Living space. Human needs like water.

    It is incumbent to understand what were coming from. Desperate people are
    politically dangerous.  How sympathetic varies.
    At some point, economic discontent spills into political discontent.

    In December, Carrier struck a deal with Trump. They struck a deal to move
    Huntington jobs to Mexico. Then VP elect pence was gov there. There were a
    number of misleading things. There was no mention o the plant, who is
    still sending the jobs.

    Trump announced it would save 11K, it only saved about 130.
    But most relevant, Carrier said they were taking their $7M in savings and
    turn it to Automation. I don't think too many people here would be
    surprised by Trump trying to make himself look good. Who was Trump trying
    to appeal to?

    One of the big things, was the "rust belt states"

    This was the manufacturing belt, but the decline there has lead to a
    decline in the economy. To the right is MA, which was part, but has changed
    the focus of our economy, unlike the rest of the belt.

    The US has lost 5M manufacturing jobs since 2000. Some is blamed on
    Outsourcing. Though we lost jobs, our output has been increasing. There
    was a drop in 2008, but it's recovered past it's pre-2008 levels. If it
    was outsourcing, it would show both decline in jobs and production.

    Turns out supply chain open data is not forthcoming from companies (lolz)

    Apple/Samsung announced they'd eliminate 60K jobs (about half) with robots.

    It depends on the job being lost. With college degrees, manufacturing jobs
    are increasing. From the traditional perspective of a floor worker, it is
    even dimmer than the raw numbers would show.

    This is from a project called campaign explorer, made by Ben Schmidt(sp)
    What it does is takes mentions of words, as reported by media. Blue is
    Clinton, orange is trump. This slide is mentions of automation. This is
    the number of times per million words. On average 2-3 mentions per mil
    each. This is "trade" and it is mentioned orders of magnitude more often.
    TPP was about 20 times more often. This was the display for immigration.
    Orders of magnitude increased.

    If you consider how much attention is around anti-immigrant fervor, if
    only a fraction was about immigrants taking jobs, this is a big
    bait-and-switch. Immigrants are being scapegoated for what the most
    powerful industry (tech) has done.

    Low-wage workers have been organizing under "fight for 15."

    Former pres of McDonald's:
        I have a simple message "I told you so." I told you union demands
        would create costly investments in self-service automation.

    What we have is a workers being scabbed by robots.
    The robots didn't build themselves, we built them. We built them. We sold
    out the workers to get ahead(tech.)

    The carrier story continues, with Chuck Jones, the pres, saying "Trump is
    lying/ignoring the impact of automation/giving people false hope."
    of course Trump attacked on Twitter, and blamed the unions for moving jobs
    out of the country. Chuck Jones and the union wants the workers to earn a
    living an survive.

    What tech workers can learn from Dock workers" was a talk last year.
    Dockworkers faced automation early on. Bridges faced mechanization and
    automation agreement. It was an unusual agreement in how forward looking it
    was. The more automation progresses, the harder it is for workers to
    counteract. Kelsey's talk, points out tech workers are laborers. We see
    ourselves as this "special" everyone is an entrepreneur. But the wages are
    high only because of the shortage of workers.

        Kelsey: I find urgent ...

    Recognizing the political power we have when we act collectively.

    I want to place this in the context of free software. I'm going to vastly
    oversimplify the McD case. The techies make the kiosks, who sell their
    work to McD, who sell that. Tech makers create value for owners.

    When I license as FOSS, I give away the value I create. It creates
    problems, like persistent underfunding, and a lack of diversity because of
    a corporation or other source of funding singularly supporting that
    project. Users may not get value.

    In both of these cases, we have a problem with tech laborers, giving away
    value. Why?

    In the case of the employee, there is something to be said for being a
    laborer v.s. capitalist. You don't have to worry about the guilt or
    complexity of running the business, or the impact of jobs.

    There is something similar involved in FSM. I'm giving my work to everyone
    is a good thing to say/believe, but it lets you off the hook for deciding
    who gets what resources. Making work open access doesn't mean everyone
    gets what they need. The free market is not perfectly efficient. Sometimes
    we need to take collective action, rather than relying on a system or
    visible .


    Back to Jones, people were sending harassment and death threats--nothing
    new for twitter. trumps seems to use the term "fake news" to discredit any
    story. It is meant by others to mean "misleading."

    Facebook is one of the biggest platforms for fake news. It is the most
    common news source for under 50. Hyperpartisan sites outperform tradition
    sites. They use eyecatching headlines to get folks to click through for
    that sweet ad revenue. The term "clickbait" may be new, but the problem
    isn't.


    William Randall Hearst "you furnish the picture, I'll furnish the war."

    Speaks to the lack of ethics in journalism who was at the head of the
    largest papers. A "yellow journalist" caused a hard tack in the other
    direction. They then forced.

    "all the news fit to print." The NYT fought sensationalism. It's worth
    knowing that there is a diff between reputation from ...

Journalistic Ethics?
    Disclose conflicts of interest
    publish corrections
    cite sources
    respect privacy
    seek content from subject of reporting
    use full and unfixed quotes

    There are folks working on media literacy, helping to show norms. This is
    a problem with the movement to online news. It is a problem of applying
    the norms to new tech. We don't need everyone to get on board with media
    literacy if we can build up trust.

    Shortly after the election, Zuck said "FB influencing the election is a
    crazy idea."

    There is something pretty uncomfortable about a private company using
    proprietary software to address this problem. To Zuck's credit, this is
    where his hesitation comes from.

    Google has hesitation towards addressing hate groups as well. Algos have
    biases, and we need to address these as a community, not a business.

    I've added some links at the end, but I want to emphasis transparency.
    When FB/GooG make a decision on how we see things, they are saying "trust
    us." We cannot even agree on basic facts. We can't just be people inside
    FB or Goog. We, FOSS, are used to working collaboratively, and knowing
    when we can trust sources.

    I want to talk about fake news. Misinfo is funded by foreign states.
    Russia's influence on the election is an evolving story, but the group
    propornot(sp), identified 200 sites with over 200M views.

    Corps, funding thinktanks, which is used work in the press. Press releases
    get worked into stories. The internet,

    "Merchants of Doubt" is a great title for further research.

    Propaganda is difficult to counteract mostly because they don't have
    funding.

    "A few Million spent on misinfo..."

Money problems
    difficult financial model for journalism.
        Less funding than Misinfo
        privacy violations/behavioral tracking
        vulnerabilities to media consolidation
            Gannett, Clearchannel (these are the small ones, not the big 6)
        lack of diversity among reporters (also in Free Software, but not to
        same extent)
            role of journalism is to have varying perspectives

    These are complex problems, but not helped by "information wants to be
    free"

Recurring Themes
    What I take away from Automation and Media
        work collectively
            beyond self-interested individual hackers
        pay attention to resources
            valuable v.s. profitable work gets done

        We're good at working collectively, but we have a culture of
        independence and autonomy (which I do love, disclaimer)

        Often when people have problems they say "fork it." it is easy to fork
        code, but hard to fork a community, and the points of integration.

        FOSS is good at creative resourcing models. We do support by licensing
        away our profit. Hardware not created in sweatshops, fact-checked
        news, these are not about profit, but maximization of value beyond
        "access to the source code."

Potential Solutions
    alternative business models
        many tech companies are aiming for acquisition, not aiming for
        mid-sized modestly wealthy companies. Education and cultural support
        like "b-corps" or worker co-ops, things not just about massive
        exponential growth.
    Unions
        not a traditional one necessarily, but the demands:
            Demand companies pay FOSS projects
            Demand companies don't use hardware in sweatshops
            demand companies pay taxes
    professional code of ethics
        doctors and lawyers have these, when they recognize that their work
        can affect others. It doesn't stop all, but it gives a set of harms to
        watch out for, and ways to describe them.
    Government action
        tech industry has come together before, but we need to broaden the
        range of things we work towards. Retraining. Telecommunications act
        rollbacks. Universal healthcare and income would help big with
        automation.

    If you have reservations, tell us. Talk about them.

    We need to talk.

    I'm going to challenge you, this weekend, talk to atleast one person about
    money and how you fund ethical software.
    Talk to one person about using collective power for collective benefit.

    Because as overwhelming as these problems are and can be, as tough as it
    seems, we are among some of the most powerful people in addressing them.
    It is in this sphere, the tech industry, where we need to take the lead.
    We should be following in other domains of activism and work, but in this
    field, we need to lead.

    We have to grapple with the things that people are doing with our work.
    Going back to enjoying our work because it's beautiful.


Jeremy Breckers' STRIKE
    collective action by workers, often, takes place in the context of not
    being through an already organized union. The strike is the thing that
    creates the union, or there is a union that doesn't want you to strike
    because it's been co-opted. Do you see similar problems in tech work with
    unions?

    A: industries without unionizations. Canny Prestige, Harvard in the 70's.
    They were primarily research assistants, frequently women, and many unions
    turned them down, because they needs and backgrounds were diff. One of the
    things getting in the way of union org, is the mental model of what unions
    are. Realizing that tech wouldn't followed the standard model. Start with
    what we want to do, then see how well the infra and tactics apply.

Q: Thanks fro your talk. I have reservations about unions, but not starting a
union with you, today (applause.) The reason we don't leverage our collective
power, like Sumana said, some of us are served by others. People see their
immediate interests. I don't have time to work through this now. The first
person thinking about Greg Olsen in unions of tech. It's been on my mind. The
easy, wonderful, but weak proposal of "fork it" is better than nothing. Let's
keep in touch. 

A: There is a session on BOF's, we should do a collective political action
BOF.

Q: Fake News == Propaganda, right. Why do you think there has been an
invention of a new term invented?
A: Trump and his supporters are using the term in a weird and inaccurate way.
I was part of MisinfoCon, and we talked about how to use the word "fake
news." there is a severe linguistic schism. Propaganda, seems to have to come
from a place of power, like gov or corp. While that covers much of what we
see, that isn't what we totally see.

Q: Fake news, we have these new techs for news, but we haven't figured out how
to apply those ethics. There is a problem of quantity, where we cannot review
it all. How to fix?
A: Have a centralized, open, transparent fact-checking. Part of what I've seen
trolling in conservative communities. "Snopes has a liberal bias" Do we create
a "3rd" level of checking then? There is a problem of ownership. The founder
of Snopes, it is a great org, but it's not transparent like Wikipedia (though
they have their own issues.) Culturally, without tech, you get lost. Without
culture, you don't get buy-in on the checking.
    
