Welcome.

Part of FOSS@MAGIC program, and our minor in FOSS and free culture.
We'll probably have another one of these, prolly with someone from the FOSS
office at FB. Probably on a Wednesday, but in 2400 in bldg 70 on 4/26. Prolly
there. Unclear on the title yet.

For those of you who are new, it's from 4-6pm on Wednesdays on the 2nd floor
of GCCIS. Make sure that you meet people and intro yourselves.

I"m SJ, I run the FOSS program with Schneidy.

Today we have Deb Nicholson, from BOS.

She won an OSCON O'Reilly award last year, and she's going to school you guys.


Deb
    thanks for the intro.
    I"m going to talk about patents, copyrights, Trademarks, and how that
    may curse us.

    You can twee me @baconandcoconut


    The title of this,

    Intellectual Property, like cake, is a lie. I'm going to talk about them
    together as they relate to FOSS development, and the creative endeavors
    that go along with it. The "future might curse us part" IP Has drifted a
    lot. It is hard to get certainty about what each of them means. We're
    going to look, individually, and see where they are headed, and what
    policy levers or actions we want to take.


    Trademarks, if you think of a website, is like the stylesheet. The
    original trademark is for bakedgoods.

    These are Mooncakes. They usually have "longevity" or "harmony" baked into
    them, and is the oldest trademark we know of.

    It helps to ensure your reputation. We use them in baked goods still.

    Borio vs Oreo

    The trick with trademarks, is that it's expanded in scope. It's not just
    the name, or look, or color, but also smell...
    That makes it difficult because you don't know if it smallest the same
    between.

    Is that smell special? Or is it all model clay?

    Notice and Money
        this is where my property begins,a nd if you cross there, you owe me
        money. It is Duked out in courts. If you infringe or degrade the mark,
        you owe them money.

    How do you set  up a sign that says "you've come into my smell!"

    If you don't know when your product smells like something else, you don't
    know when you'll get sued for infringement.

    Let's talk about who is pushing the TM creep, and who the creeps are.

    You must continually enforce your mark if you want to keep it. That means
    suing them, or at least sending a nasty letter.

    We have an event "the tiny tall ships festival"

    This is the artwork to promote the event. This is who they got a TM notice
    from. The people who sell tickets to the small ships.

    They were afraid they'd confuse this, with this...


    They are paranoid to lose TM?
    Do they have a friend, an out of work lawyer, who saw this and said "hey,
    we can both make money?"

    The tiny ships people get their own lawyer, and they defended
    successfully.

    Disparagement
        not allowed to get trademark.
        People remember about the Washington Redskins getting their TM
        revoked?
        The TM office has another role that needs to be recalibrated to keep
        out slurs.

        The Slants
        The first Asian American rock dance band wanted this name, but the
        office said No, because it is disparagement. Is reclamation the right
        place to decide this? Maybe the TM office is not up on the lingo the
        kids are using? This is an odd role to decide who reclaims what words.
        In the 80's in was Dykes on Bikes, and today, they could use an Urban
        dictionary.

        This is another wiggly space with uncertainty.

    Use our code, but not our trademark?
        In FOSS, you have confusion where people are contributing to a code
        base, and they think we're all in it together, sharing all the things,
        but not the use of the TM. If folks don't understand what the TM is, it
        is def confusing.

    FSF v. FSF v. FSF
        I used to work at the Free Software Foundation.
        We used to get mail from the Friends of Science Fiction.
        And the Footballers Supporters Federation.

        As more and more things are on the internet, we end up with more
        namespace collision, more font and color space collision, and more
        things pretending to be something they are not. Kissing the boundary of
        infringement, and allusion.

    Register your TM
        You want to pay attention to who holds the TM. There are lots of sad
        stories about "we all own it" but then the person who owns the mark,
        leaving folks out in the cold.

    Resist increased scope for TM
        as we find more sensory info, we need to avoid creep

    Copyright
        The right to copy.
        Intended for the written word originally.
        Expanded now to scripts, and maps, and all things written.
        Earliest example
            Irish king had a monk, and asking monk wanted to make a copy. 2nd
            monk said no.
            King decreed:
            To every cow belongs her calf, and to every book belongs it's
            copy.

            This is where it comes from, even if you didn't spend the entire
            night awake doing the copying.

        They can be for written word. For instructions. For music. For ways to
        replicate a performance.

    Is it instructions, or is it creative work?
        If it's just instructions, it shouldn't be under copyright.
        It is hardware instructions, but it is also creative.
        And to make it complicated, code can make copies too.

    Copyright creeps
        let's talk about the mouse in the room.
        Disney pushes fro extension.
        Life plus 70 years. May be up to 120.
        Not going anywhere anytime soon.

        Not just Disney

        Warner Bros and Sony aren't generous either.

        Here's a list of sites that WB sent takedown notices to. Highlighted,
        is their own website here.

        That is the process of sending notice to websites.
        But they also you other methods to squash fair use.

        "Harry, you fucked all the shit up, but it was dope as hell.
        Fifty points for Griffyndor"

        This is from a rifftrax.
        The Brad Neely soundtrack was being played at theatres, but they
        threatened all the theatres and said if they played it, they'd never
        get another WB movie ever again.

        Some people take public domain books, and then put it into a
        copyrighted Format. It's easily available, but you gotta pay us for
        it.

        New stuff won't go into the domain, and old stuff is being put out
        into a copyrighted "format."

    Terms of Service
        this is on top of copyright.
        The DMCA, CCFA
        So these laws make legal to enforce the way people use your website.
        Instead of "here is info, do what you want with it."
        "by clicking this button, you can only behave in this way as a
        consumer of this product." infact, we can send the police if you use
        our site in a way we don't approve of.

        It's not just copying a site, or fair use, but other stipulations
        about how you use data on a site, an how you use it, by law.

        And there is no recourse for an overreaching TOS.

        My father is an attorney, and he says he doesn't even read all those.

    We should not let companies suck up public domain work.
    When we write FOSS, we can use copyleft.

    Copyright is "all rights reserved"
    Copyleft is "you can use this as long as you share back the changes."

    Unfortunately, copyleft has enemies. 
    It's like "lock the door now that I"m here at your free buffet." There are
    companies that are misinformed, or are intentionally pretending to be
    misinformed, to come back against copyleft.

    We didn't just make up these licenses, and then accidentally release code.
    We release this code to the commons, on purpose, so we can all use it. It
    wasn't an accident. You didn't "Discover" all this free stuff.

    Patents
        Pin with ball at the end v.s. pin without
        There isn't much ambiguity here when you compare the two. In the
        physical world.

        It gets trickier with chemical formulas.

        We start to get trickier. Did you add an inactive molecule at the end?

        You can have a patent on a biz method. On software. You can say "I
        found an idea, and I'm going to fix it with 'software.' and you don't
        have to provide the sourcecode when you apply for the patent.

        There is kinda some money in software.

        If there is an algorithm to match cats with cat owners, versus shoes
        with shoe owners, are people talking to eachother.

        People ask me "I'm writing this code that does X, maybe you can tell
        me if it's infringing..." and I say "yes" and they say "wait, I didn't
        show you the code yet."

        There are lawyers that have made a boatload of money.

        Apple wanted to sue Samsung for the rounded corners on tablets.

        VC's would like to see robust patent space. If the dream dies, they
        want to sell off the patents. 

        And also, there's certain companies that are trying to get their
        platforms adopted as a standard, with gov use, and other fair
        reasonable non-discriminatory.

        Apple is one of these, and there are not many others that expect a
        small royalty to.

        Is it like a dollar or two? Is that a big deal?
        When a phone has 2-3000 patents, yeah.
        You can buy a smart phone in India for $5. You add $50 to it, it's not
        longer affordable.

        Trolls
            the more vaguely written, the more people they can beat people
            with it. Esp old ones that seem to apply to new tech.

        What do you do?
            When you talk to a lawyer/VC, get it in writing.
            Maybe you just want to do defensive publication.
            Maybe you just do a patent pledge.

            There are ways to do this, without giving more food to trolls.
        OIN
            We run a defensive patent pool, for people who agree to
            non-aggression. As a community, we agree to not sue eachother. If
            you write software, pick with with patent protection. GPL, Apache,
            or MPL.

            You want everyone to know they can collaborate, without one of
            them pooling info to sue people later.

        LoT Network
            If your patent gets sold to a troll, it gets invalidated.

        Defensive Patent License
            attempt to create a GPL for patents

        PAX
            Non-aggression pact, specifically for Android stuff


    Conclusion
        First, keep building stuff. If you build stuff people are excited
        about, you get to decide how it goes into the world.

        You get to call the shots

        If you put stuff under the GPL, they have to play by your rules.

        Resist lawmaking without transparency.
            We just saw the TPP crash and burn, which was great, but we see
            more of this policy creation happening.

        Garbage in, Garbage out
            if we continue to elect people who don't understand how tech
            works, we're not going to good tech policy.

            If you have a representative, you can say "I know this isn't your
            super specialty, but I would love to come in and talk about this
            issue."

            I don't know if there is going to be legislation coming that will
            help with patent problems, but there is a link for an org that
            does a good job tracking this stuff. They have a 2016 version,
            we'll see about 2017.

        News you can use
            FSF
            SFC
            EFF
            OSI
            TechDirt.com

        Further Reading
            Brief o the Cato institute and basket of deplorable people and
            organizations

            The market for software innovation through the lens of patent
            licenses and sales by colleen v Chien

            One year review of ALICE v CLS Bank Jasper L. Tran

            http://patentprogress.org

Questions

Q: What is a good place that can hold onto your trademarks and copyrights?
A: The SFC is a great one for that. If you are a small project with just a
couple of coders, and you don't want dive into tax law and administration,
you can talk to them.

Fi you are working on GNU code, you can work with the FSF.


Q: I'm taking Open Source in Invention, attending OSCON. Any tips?
A: There is potential for FOMO. It is basically from 7-? So don't forget to
sleep. It's really easy to do that. Second thing, if you are interested in a
topic at OSCON, you can go to the expo floor, and invite folks to eat with you.
For me, it's software patents. "Hey if you wanna talk, let's all go to lunch."
"we're standing by this Pole, you can find us here, and we can all go each
lunch at X time."

Q: The tables at OSCON often have banners too.
A: Eventually, they just have people looking for a place to sit.

Q: Do you see an increase of people under these umbrellas?
A: OIN is over 2000 companies and projects. We just had our 10 year
anniversary. We are starting to get more companies that are not software. We
just signed Toyota, for example. Cars have Linux in them now. And getting them
to think about the "open source way" of doing things is a big deal. This is a
great problem to have, the "Open source is the thing, here's where we don't
sue eachother out of existence, here is where we don't use the community for
sales leads, and here's where we don't pretend we don't understand the
license."

Q: What trends have you noticed where ordinary people understand these issues?
A: Non lawyers, it's both. The old-time coders, they had to understand the
licensing and patent stuff, because there were not lawyers in place who
understood it. Now, there are plenty of young coders who don't know the
licenses, or understand the environment in which the licenses were created.
The "post-open source" era. This is a challenge for us, we haven't done a
great job explaining.

"everyone is nice and gets it now" v.s. "no, they are contractually
obligated."

A: SJ, a trend we see on campus here, now that GitHub is a thing, students
often believe that because it's on GitHub, it's FOSS, but we have to ask them
if they posted a license with it.
A: A good understanding of the culture of sharing, but not licensing. The biz
and legal professionals now understand FOSS licenses, when I started, it was
like the handful of people at the SFLC.

Q: How aggressive should open source projects be in registering trademarks?
A: you should do it earlier rather than later. You never want to get to the
point where you have 8 people contributing who think "I'm the contributor"
and they're using the name and logo made by someone's roomate who has
disappeared. It's not that much to register, and if you want to go with an
umbrella org--if you are Apache, you can get help from Apache foundation. FSF
for GNU. SFC for others. That's not super scientific, I know, sorry.


Q: Tidal was a Haskell music programming language. But then, 2 years later, the
music platform came, and we changed the name/logo.
A: Yeah, courts are expensive. If you have the most money, you likely win
before you even go to court. Not defending is the cheapest option.

Q: Would registering a trademark have helped in this situation?
A: Yes, and if you are going to name something, doing a thorough search to
avoid overlap.

Q: Toyota, and other companies that are joining. What are the repercussions if
they abuse the system, besides bad press?
A: A lot of companies join the OIN, for the Optics and PR. "We're for real
FOSS, you can trust us..." SATA joined for a year, but all their patents on
the books when they joined, are free. Patent terms are 20 years. Anything
after they leave, not subject to the pool. They are not protected by the pool
either though.

We've had very few people leave the pool.


Q: Did the auto industry have a pool on their own?
A: GENIVII alliance? It's an automotive Linux group, for coordinating Linux in
Cars. They shared stuff, similar to open stack, where they agree to platform
stuff they all use for interoperability, and makes parts cheaper, and it
helps to not reinvent all the pieces of the OS. It doesn't apply to the
patent. Because much of it is GPLv2, there is an "implied" patent grant some
would say, but it doesn't have the explicit grant like the GPLv3. Up until PAX
announced, OIN is by far the largest free patent pool. There are others, but
they are pay-to-play. You pay in, you get the license, and then you get to not
get sued. OIN doesn't get sued, so it's a very different model.

Q: Are there ever issues with Trade Secrets in FOSS development?
A: Much of that falls under NDA, and fought out over a particular employee. It
tends to be more on an individual level. Not like the big company-to-company
expensive lawsuit.

Q: MPEGLA? That sounds a lot like extortion?
A: It is.

**big laughs**

Except it is legal. That's why we need to target the legislation that makes it
legal, and profitable. It's very "eff you pay me."

Q: You mention the Samsung rounded corners suit. That seems odd that the
patent office allows that. Seems like a waste of time? Why would they allow
that?

A: You're not wrong. That's a great question. I've never worked there but:
1) They are overworked and likely underpaid agency. They get a certain number
of hours. If they made it easy, ti would be different, but they are probably
about 20 pages long, and includes "due to our ergonomic blah blah blah" they
cover it with lots of verbiage to obfuscate the claims. Lots of legalese to
cover a simple idea, and until many people look at it, they don't see. You pay
an additional fee once your patent is granted. So, like a commission.

Q: That seems wrong for a gov agency?
A: Yeah, but it's like the post office, where it's not fully funded, but they
are funded by the services that they provide. So yeah, maybe we should set up
the office in a different way with diff carrots and sticks.

Q: I went to a conference recently with presentations about blockchain?
A: Blockchain has some overlap with Linux and open source. There is stuff not
covered at OIN in our patent pool. What we've recommended, they should develop
their own pool for their tech. That sounds like the potential for a huge pile
of expensive suits. Techwise, blockchain is the new docker. Its like the
magic sauce on everything. There will be lots of companies putting block chain
into stuff form here on out. The code base is very different than Linux, they
should start their own pool.

Q: I'm based in Boston, but I have colleagues from all over the world. Korea,
Australia, China, Japan, Europe, and the US.

Q: Since OIN is global, would it be good to talk about different
jurisdictions, where it's not possible to surrender your copyrights in some
places, for example?
A: What happens in diff jurisdictions? The US Exports, sometimes forcefully,
our ideas of what copyrights and patents are. If you read NAFTA, there are
parts in there that say "you agree to adhere to the US Standard" spelled out.
Other countries are like "Ehhh, we could keep the IP out, and just do
physical goods?" and the US was like "Nah."

This is like, above my paygrade, but the US looks diff.

If you are writing code, and it's used by people in the US, you can be sued
here in the US. For many years, Chinese companies get called over to the US
for infringement, eastern Texas district specifically. The Chinese patent org
has gone through exponential growth in the last year. Now any country can sue
you, and you can either stop making your stuff available to people in diff
countries, or you have to go to that court.

If you wrote code that was usable by a small language group, you may not have
to worry about the scope outside of that place. But if you write in English,
in iOS or Apple, you have to look at globally, how patents and copyrights
work.  That means, looking at the biggest, pushiest, most litigious country
works, e.g. the USA.

The one glimmer of hope is that not every country says they like the scope of
patentablility, and are building their own patent offices. India decided,
where Sony Erickson has tried to sue there, and there is a court there and an
org that protects local organizations. Weighing the global interests, versus
local interests. One time they through Sony a bone, but most times, it is
decided it's too important how connectivity has created a boom. It's been a
huge revolution in the way Indian business works, and we're not going to make
people pay Sony.

"We're going to out-patent you" v.s. "we're not going to allow patents."


I can take 2-3 more questions.


Q: I have a left-field. Stephenson talks about Disney theme parks, and the
artisans who built them, they are not credited in any way for the things they
built. The same comes from the limited reading on Moral Rights. Euro Disney
has moral rights. The artists and craftspeople, have moral rights to be
recognized as creators. Are there plaques at Euro Disney, where you can see who
built things? Is this a thing? Does anyone talk about this?

A: that is interesting because it doesn't apply to software. I haven't been to
Euro Disney either.

Q: Sometimes you see credits, and sometimes you don't. Unlike a movie, where
you always get credits?

A: that doesn't usually happen, because all the authors are listed in a
CONTRIB file, or there is an agreement to assign copyright. Sometimes they do
both, because they know you're contributing code unpaid. The thing where,
there is no 'hand crafted' 'I used a special brush' for like, python, per se.
The thing is, where patents and copyrights come from, neither of them make
sense for computer code. Neither are a good fit. Is it creative, or is it
instructions for a device?

Patents used to always have a diagram.
People are talking about the diagram requirement be revived.

Q: if you submit software to a group or org that doesn't have a copyright
protection themselves, who does that belong to?
A: You can't actually do that. If you write something, you have the copyright.
It defaults to "all rights reserved." if you write it, you can keep those, or
you can give them. The example you are thinking if you contribute to GitHub?

If there is no license, there is nothing there beyond default copyright. That
is the case.

Q: Is there a way you can force, have final review over copyright, but not
enforce it? Can you retain it so that you can control the direction that an
aspect of it goes, but keep other from using it?

A: Yeah, you can use a Free Software license. You choose a license, there are
lots, and then, make sure your code goes where you think it does. Say you
change your mind, you fall in with a bad crowd, and you wanna revoke the
license. You can only revoke on future aspects. If you put it up on GitHub
under a FOSS license, you can write additional code, but the original will be
under the Free license.

Q: Technically, you can hold your license forever, and decide if you wanna
charge someone for it, but you have to be in a position to have legal teams
back you up?


Q: Companies make lots of money off licensing? If they join, do they no longer
make money off of patent licensing?
A: OIN is about patents specifically. It depends. We do have folks that still
license the code. They provided a cross license on the function of the code.
The trademarks, the style-sheet, and the copyright is like the content. The
patent is on the function, or the interaction on the real world. If you
cross-license your patent, that doesn't preclude you from selling a license on
the text itself.

Not only are we the ones that hold the text, we have the most bug-free version
of the text. You could get it off the street, but you prolly wanna get it from
us.

There are more ways to make money from software than just patent lawsuits.


Schniedy
    IN 2 weeks is the last hackathon at RIT for the year. The NASA space apps
    challenge.

    29th-30th. All open source data and programming. You can register here
    right now on their website. We're one of hundreds of sites world-wide.

SJ
    this isn't just for coders, it is for crafty and maker-y people.

    Not just for RIT students, but the public and other schools.
